<doc id="19373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19373" title="Basque language">
Basque language

Basque (in Basque: ') is the language spoken by the Basque people in the Basque Country and diaspora. The standard Basque name for the language is Euskara. Although it is surrounded by Indo-European languages, Basque is a language isolate. It is not related to the Indo-European languages. 
The ancestors of Basques are among the oldest residents of Europe, and their beginnings are unknown, as are the origins of Basque itself. Many scholars have tried to link Basque to Etruscan, African languages, Caucasian languages and so on, but most see Basque as a language isolate. 
A connection with the Iberian language gave some hope, but it is unclear whether similarities are due to genetic relations or mere vicinity.
It was spoken long before the Romans brought Latin to the Iberian Peninsula.
The region where Basque is spoken is smaller than what is known as the Basque Country, or "Euskal Herria" in Basque. Basque used to be spoken over a larger area, but Latin took over in some places.
Historically, Latin or Romance has been the official language.
Today Basque holds co-official language status in the Basque regions of Spain: the full autonomous community of the Basque Country and some parts of Navarre. Basque has no official standing in the Northern Basque Country of France and French citizens are barred from using Basque in a French court of law.
There are six main Basque dialects, comprising Biscayan, Guipuzcoan, and High Navarrese (in Spain), and Low Navarrese, Labourdin, and Souletin (in France). The dialect boundaries are not however congruent with political boundaries. 
One of the first scientific studies of Basque dialects, in particular the auxiliary verb forms, was made by Louis-Lucien Bonaparte (a nephew of Napoleon).
There is now a unified version of Euskara called Batua ("unified" in Basque), which is the language taught in schools. Batua is based largely on the Gipuzkoa regional dialect.
Basque is an ergative-absolutive language. It is very complicated, having many different cases for nouns.
The vowel system is the same as Spanish for most speakers. It consists of five pure vowels, . 
By contact with neighbouring peoples, Basque has borrowed words from Latin, Spanish, French, Gascon, among others, but accepted relatively few compared to many Indo-European languages. Some claim that many of its words come from Latin, but phonetic evolution has made many of them appear nowadays as if they were native words, e.g. "lore" ("flower", from "florem"), "errota" ("mill", from "rotam", "[mill] wheel"), "gela" ("room", from "cellam").
Basque is written using the Latin alphabet. The universal special letter is "ñ", which is pronounced like the "n" in "onion"; sometimes "ç" and "ü" are also used. Basque does not use "c, q, v, w, y" except for loan words; they are not considered part of the alphabet. The "X" is pronounced as a "sh", as in "shine".

</doc>
<doc id="19374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19374" title="Heinz Fischer">
Heinz Fischer

Heinz Fischer (born 9 October 1938) is the former president of Austria. His wife is Margit Fischer.

</doc>
<doc id="19375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19375" title="Chlorine">
Chlorine

Chlorine (chemical symbol Cl) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 17, and its atomic mass is 35.45. It is part of the 7th column (halogens) on the periodic table of elements. 
Chlorine is a very irritating and greenish-yellow gas. It has a strong smell like bleach. It is toxic. It can be made into a liquid when cooled. It is heavier than air.
Chlorine is highly reactive. It is more reactive than bromine but less reactive than fluorine. It reacts with most things to make chlorides. It can even burn things instead of oxygen. It dissolves in water to make a mixture of hypochlorous acid and hydrochloric acid. The more acidic it is, the more chlorine is made; the more basic it is, the more hypochlorous acid (normally turned into hypochlorite) and hydrochloric acid (normally turned into chlorides) are there. Chlorine reacts with bromides and iodides to make bromine and iodine. 
Chlorine exists in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +4, +5, and +7. The -1 state is most often in chloride. Chlorides are not reactive. Compounds containing chlorine in its +1 oxidation state are hypochlorites. Only one is common. They are a strong oxidizing agent, as are all + oxidation state compounds. +3 is in chlorites. +4 is in chlorine dioxide, a common chlorine compound that is not a chloride. +5 is in chlorates. +7 is in perchlorates. Hypochlorites are most reactive, while perchlorates are the least reactive.
Many organic compounds have chlorine in them. Freon has chlorine in it. PVC (Poly-vinyl chloride), a common plastic, has chlorine in it. 
Chlorine oxides can be made, but most of them are very reactive and unstable.
Chlorine is not found as an element. Sodium chloride is the most common chlorine ore. It is in the ocean (sea salt) and in the ground (rock salt). There are some organic compounds that have chlorine in them, too.
It is made by electrolysis (the passing of electricity through a solution to make chemical reactions happen) of sodium chloride. This is known as the chloralkali process. It can also be made by reacting hydrogen chloride with oxygen and a catalyst. It can be made in the laboratory by reacting manganese dioxide with hydrochloric acid. It is made when sodium hypochlorite reacts with hydrochloric acid. This is a dangerous reaction that can happen without anyone knowing.
Chlorine is used widely to purify water (usually in a swimming pool), as a disinfectant and bleach, and in the making of many important compounds including chloroform and carbon tetrachloride. It was used as a poison gas in some wars.
It was discovered in 1774 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele who thought it had oxygen in it. Chlorine was named in 1810 by Humphry Davy who insisted it was an element. The US made all water chlorinated (added chlorine to water) by 1918.
It is poisonous in large amounts and can damage skin. When it is inhaled (breathed in), it irritates the lungs, eyes, and skin badly. It can cause fire with some things because it is very reactive. It is heavier than air, so it can fill up enclosed spaces.

</doc>
<doc id="19377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19377" title="Halogen">
Halogen

The halogens are chemical elements under the second-to-right column in the periodic table, also known as Group 17. The elements in the group are fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, astatine, and ununseptium. Halogen literally means "salt becomer", but it is often cited to mean "salt producer". They are very reactive, so they are likely to join with other elements on the left side of the periodic table to make compounds. This is due to the fact that they are missing one electron. They are rarely found alone in nature, except astatine, which is not found in nature. Fluorine is the most reactive, while iodine is the least reactive. Astatine is very radioactive and hard to get.

</doc>
<doc id="19379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19379" title="Vitamin">
Vitamin

A vitamin is a chemical compound that is needed in small amounts for the human body to work correctly. They include Vitamin A, many B vitamins (like B, B, B, B, and B), Vitamin C, Vitamin D, Vitamin E, and Vitamin K. For example, citrus fruits such as oranges and lemons contain vitamin C. 
Many vitamins can not be made by the body itself. The body needs to get them from other places, usually through food. A short term lack of a certain vitamin is usually not a problem, as the body is able to store vitamins for a short time. Not having a certain vitamin for a longer period of time can lead to different diseases, depending on the lacking vitamin. Probably the best-known of these diseases is scurvy, which results from not having enough Vitamin C. Beriberi and rickets are others. 
Today, many drug companies make inexpensive pills that contain various vitamins. They help people avoid those diseases.
Vitamins can be either fat-soluble or water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K) can be stored in the body, and are used when needed. Water-soluble ones only stay in the body a short time.
Currently there are no vitamins F to J. These existed at some time. Today they are no longer seen as vitamins. Some of them were also false leads, and turned out to be something else. Others were renamed as B vitamins. Today, the B vitamins are a whole complex, and not just one vitamin. 
The German-speaking scientists who isolated and described vitamin K (in addition to naming it as such) did so because the vitamin is intimately involved in the 'Koagulation' (clotting) of blood following wounding. At the time, most (but not all) of the letters from F through I were already designated, so the use of the letter K was considered quite reasonable.
The following table lists chemicals that had previously been classified as vitamins, as well as the earlier names of vitamins that later became part of the B-complex. 

</doc>
<doc id="19383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19383" title="Adultery">
Adultery

Adultery is a word used in religious texts like Exodus 20:14. It applies to a married person sleeping with someone other than the person who they are married to. Adultery usually comes with a heavy punishment for example, death by stoning in some Muslim countries. In most countries adultery is no longer a crime, but most people still see it as a bad thing.(see Gospel of John 8) If a person who is married takes part in adultery, that person's husband or wife would usually have the right to be able to go to court to divorce them.
The word adultery originates not from “adult”, as is commonly thought in English-speaking countries, but from the Late Latin word for “to alter, corrupt”: “adulterare”. “Adulterare” in turn is formed by the combination of “ad” (towards), and “alter” (other), together with the infinitive form “are” (making it a verb). Thus the meaning is literally “to make other”. In contrast, the word “adult” (meaning a person of mature years) comes from another Latin root, “adolescere”, meaning to grow up or mature: a combination of “ad” (towards), “alere” (to nourish, to grow), and the inchoative infix “sc”(meaning to enter into a state of).
Famous adulterers include :
See also Othello

</doc>
<doc id="19384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19384" title="Perjury">
Perjury

Perjury is the word used for a person that tells a lie while they are under oath (in a courtroom). Committing perjury is against the law, and can be punished with a jail or prison sentence.
Perjury is a serious crime because it might be used to take away the power of a court, which can lead to punishment for the wrong person. In the United States, perjury can be punished by five years in prison. However, in California, a person who commits perjury can get the death penalty if the perjury led to a wrongful execution.
The rules of perjury also apply when a person says or does something "under penalty of perjury", even if he or she never swore an oath. One example is the United States' income tax return, where people have to sign as true and correct under penalty of perjury. A person can be punished by three years in prison if he or she lies on the tax return.
A statement that involves "interpretation" are not perjury because people can judge incorrectly without knowing it. Perjury only happens if a person wanted to do it and then actually did.
The offence of perjury is written in section 132 of the Criminal Code. It is described by section 131, which says that perjury is when a person says something false when he or she knows that it is false. People who commit perjury can be imprisoned for fourteen years at most.
A person in the Court of Justice of the European Communities swears anything he knows is false is guilty of perjury. Proceedings for perjury can happen in any place in the State and the offence can be treated as if it happened in that place.
Perjury in American law comes from the common law of England, which defined the it as giving a false testimony under oath that has to do with the issue.
The American legal system defines perjury as saying anything knowingly false under oath to a "competent tribunal, officer, or person". The punishment can be a fine or up to five years in prison or both.

</doc>
<doc id="19386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19386" title="Lust">
Lust

Lust is a term for a strong desire or wanting, or maybe even needing, often for sexual acts, although it is also commonly used to talk of a "lust for life" or a "lust for power" or for other goals.
As a sexual desire, it is considered a sin (a failing) by Christianity, which lists it as one of the seven deadly sins.
"Lust" was originally an Anglo-Saxon word which meant "desire" or "appetite". 

</doc>
<doc id="19387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19387" title="Seven deadly sins">
Seven deadly sins

Some followers of Christianity say that there are sins that are the causes of all others. There are seven sins that they call "deadly". Although the Bible does not list the seven deadly sins, they are in the book The Divine Comedy.
Ranked in order (starting with the lightest and least evil) like in Dante's "Divine Comedy" (in the Purgatorio), the seven deadly sins are:
People see that some of these sins are connected. They have tried to put an order to them. For example, pride (love of self out of proportion) is needed for gluttony (the over-consumption or waste of food), as well as sloth, envy, and most of the others. 
Each of these sins is a way of not loving God and not loving others as much as oneself. Scholasticism developed schema of attribute and substance of will to explain these sins.
As previously mentioned, the Latin words for the sins are: "superbia, avaritia, luxuria, invidia, gula, ira" and "accidia". 
The first letters of these words form the medieval Latin word "saligia", whence the verb "saligiare" (to commit a deadly sin) is taken. Various mnemonic devices exist for remembering the sins in English, e.g. PEG'S LAW (pride, envy, gluttony, sloth, lust, avarice, wrath).
In the official Catechism of the Catholic Church, consisting of 2,865 numbered sections and first published in 1992 by order of Pope John Paul II, the seven deadly sins are dealt with in one paragraph. The principal codification of moral transgression for Christians continues to be the Ten Commandments and the Beatitudes, which are a positive statement of morality, and part of the Sermon on the Mount.
The opposite of these sins are the seven virtues (chastity, moderation, charity, zeal, meekness, generosity, and humility) in corresponding order to the above seven deadly sins.

</doc>
<doc id="19391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19391" title="Bromine">
Bromine

Bromine (Br) is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 35, and its atomic weight is 80. It is part of the Group 7 elements (halogens) on the periodic table. It is diatomic, which means that two atoms are stuck together to make a molecule in any bromine sample.
Bromine is a red-brown liquid. Liquid elements are rare; only bromine and mercury are liquid at room temperature. It easily evaporates to make suffocating brown fumes. It has a bad smell. Its name means "stench of he-goats". It can become a metal at very high pressures.
It has two stable isotopes. They are Br and Br. There are about 29 other radioactive isotopes. 
Bromine is quite reactive. Its reactivity is between chlorine, which is more reactive, and iodine, which is less reactive. It reacts with metals and nonmetals. Phosphorus reacts violently with bromine. Aluminum reacts in a similar way. It can bleach things like chlorine. It reacts better in the light. It dissolves a little in water. Hot water makes it disproportionate into hydrobromic acid and hypobromous acid. Bromine can form compounds with substances such as sodium to form sodium bromide.
Bromine forms compounds in many oxidation states: –1, +1, +3, +5, and (sometimes) +7. –1 is the most common. It is found as bromide. Bromides are not reactive. They are colorless solids that dissolve in water easily. Covalent bromides can be liquids or gases. The other compounds are all strong oxidizing agents. Their chlorine cousins are more common. +1 has the hypobromites, which are unstable. +3 has the bromites. Bromine dioxide is the only common bromine compound found in the +4 oxidation state. +5 has the bromates, which are more common than all the other ones except the bromides. Bromates are strong oxidizing agents and are sometimes added to flour. +7 has the perbromates. Perbromates are very unstable.
Bromine is found as bromide in the ocean and in brine pools. The Dead Sea has a lot of bromide in it. Bromine is not an important part of our body, unlike its relatives chlorine and iodine.
Bromine is made by bubbling chlorine gas through a solution of a bromide. The bromide is oxidized to bromine, while the chlorine is reduced to chloride. 
It is mainly used to make organobromine compounds, organic compounds with bromine in them. Organobromines are used to put out fires. They used to be added to gasoline. Some were used as pesticides. Some inorganic bromides were used as sedatives. Bromine can also be used as a disinfectant. Silver bromide is used in film.
Bromine is toxic and corrosive to skin. Bromine gas is irritating when it is breathed in, too. Bromine can react violently with many things.

</doc>
<doc id="19392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19392" title="Fluorine">
Fluorine

Fluorine (symbol F) is a chemical element that is very poisonous. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 9, and its atomic mass is 19. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements.
Fluorine is a light yellow diatomic gas. It is very reactive gas, which exists as diatomic molecules. It is actually the most reactive element. Fluorine has a very high attraction for electrons, because it is missing one. This makes it the most powerful oxidizing agent. It can rip electrons from water (making oxygen) and ignite propane on contact. It does not need a spark. Metals can catch on fire when placed in a stream of fluorine. After it is reduced by reacting with other things, it forms the stable fluoride ion. Fluorine is very poisonous. Fluorine bonds very strongly with carbon. It can react with the unreactive noble gases. It explodes when mixed with hydrogen. The melting point of fluorine is -363.33°F (-219.62°C), the boiling point is -306.62°F (-188.12°C).
Chemical compounds containing fluorine ions are called fluorides. Fluorine only exists in one oxidation state: -1.
Fluorine is not found as an element on the earth; it is much too reactive. Several fluorides are found in the earth, though. When calcium phosphate is reacted with sulfuric acid to make phosphoric acid, some hydrofluoric acid is produced. Also, fluorite can be reacted with sulfuric acid to make hydrofluoric acid. Is a luiquid of fluoride U. Fluorite naturally occurs on the earths' crust in rocks, coal and clay.
Fluorine is normally made by electrolysis. Hydrogen fluoride is dissolved in potassium fluoride. This mixture is melted and an electric current is passed through it. This is electrolysis. Hydrogen is produced at one side and fluorine at the other side. If the sides are not separated, the cell may explode.
Someone made fluorine in 1986 without using electrolysis. They produced manganese(IV) fluoride by using various chemical compounds, which released fluorine gas.
Fluorine is used to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons. It is also used to make sulfur hexafluoride. Sulfur hexafluoride is used to propel stuff out of an aerosol can. It is also used to make integrated circuits. Fluorine compounds have many uses. Fluoride ions are in fluorine compounds. Fluoride ions can be in toothpaste. Some are used in nonstick coatings. Freons contain fluorine.
Fluorine as an element is extremely reactive and toxic. It can react with almost everything, even glass. Fluorine is also poisonous.
Fluoride ions are somewhat toxic. If too much toothpaste containing fluoride is eaten then fluoride poisoning may occur. Fluoride is not reactive, though.

</doc>
<doc id="19394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19394" title="Iodine">
Iodine

Iodine is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 53, and its atomic mass (the number of protons plus neutrons) is 127. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements and its electronic configuration is 2,8,18,18,7. It is a nonmetal. 
Iodine is a dark purple-black solid. It is also a nonmetal and a halogen. It sublimes when heated to make a bright purple vapor. This vapor is very irritating, although colorful. Iodine does not dissolve in water, but it does dissolve in a solution of an iodide in water. It dissolves easily in organic solvents.
Iodine is at the bottom of the halogens and is the least reactive of the halogens. Iodine is an oxidizing agent, though not as strong as bromine or chlorine. It can become the colorless iodide ion if another atom or molecule gives an iodine atom one of its electrons. This is called reduction. Iodine reacts with hydrogen sulfide or hydrazine to make hydriodic acid. Iodine dissolves in oleum to make a bright blue solution of I and sulfur dioxide. This cation is also made when iodine reacts with antimony pentafluoride. 
Iodine reacts with bases to make hypoiodite and iodide. The hypoiodite disproportionates to iodate and iodide. Iodine reacts with nitric acid and chlorates to make iodates, too. Iodine reacts violently with some metals like aluminium to make large amounts of heat and toxic vapors.
Iodine forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: -1, +1, +3, +5, and +7. This is typical of the halogens except for fluorine. -1 compounds as iodides are the most common. Most organic iodine compounds are in the -1 oxidation state. Most iodides are colorless or reddish-yellow and are weak reducing agents. +1 and +3 compounds are quite rare. They are both oxidizing agents. +1 compounds are found as iodine monochloride and hypoiodites. +3 compounds are found as iodine trichloride or iodine trifluoride. +5 compounds are found as iodates and iodic acid. Iodine pentafluoride and iodine pentoxide are iodine compounds in the +5 state. +5 and +7 compounds are all strong oxidizing agents. +7 compounds are normally found as periodates and periodic acid. Iodine heptafluoride is also in the +7 oxidation state.
Potassium iodide is one of the most common iodides. Iodides are normally colorless but turn yellow after being in air because the iodide is oxidized to iodine. Iodides react with acidified manganese dioxide or chlorine to make iodine. Iodine monochloride is a red or brown liquid. Iodine trichloride, as well as iodine trifluoride, are yellow solids. Iodates like potassium iodate are colorless solids similar to chlorates. Iodic acid is the only stable oxidizing halogen acid. Chloric acid, by comparison, is very unstable and dangerous. Iodine pentoxide is a white solid, and iodine pentafluoride is a yellowish liquid. Periodates, like sodium periodate, are colorless solids similar to perchlorates, although weaker oxidizing agents. They decompose to iodates when they are heated. Periodic acid is not as stable as iodic acid. Iodine heptafluoride is the only iodine(VII) compound.
It was discovered by Barnard Courtois in 1811. He burned seaweed to get sodium carbonate and reacted the residue with sulfuric acid. One time, he poured too much sulfuric acid on the seaweed and purple vapor came out which made dark blue-black crystals on a cold surface. He did not have enough money to see whether it was a new element or not. He gave samples to several chemists, who identified it as an element in 1813.
Iodine is too reactive to be in nature as an element. Iodine compounds are not common in the ground. There is a mineral called caliche that is found in dry deserts. It has iodate in it. Iodide is found in seawater. Kelp has quite large amounts of iodine in it. Iodine is one of the heaviest elements needed by living things. If we do not get enough of it, we get a disease known as goitre. Most salt has iodine in it, in the form of iodide or iodate. We can also take iodine pills to make sure we get enough.
Kelp was burned and the iodine extracted from the ashes in the 18th and 19th century, but now it is not good enough for common use. Most iodine now is extracted from seawater. Chlorine is reacted with seawater to change the iodide to iodine. Air is blown over the water to evaporate the iodine. Then the iodine is reduced with sulfur dioxide to hydriodic acid. Then the hydriodic acid is oxidized with chlorine again to make iodine. This process is repeated until the iodine is pure. 
A very pure form of iodine is made by reacting copper sulfate and potassium iodide. This makes copper(II) iodide which is not stable. It breaks down into copper(I) iodide and iodine, which is pure.
Iodine is used as a catalyst for making acetic acid. Animal feed also has iodine in it for nutrition. Iodine is used for a disinfectant. Tincture of iodine is a common iodine disinfectant. Iodine can be used to prevent thyroid cancer after a nuclear explosion. After a nuclear explosion, radioactive iodine fills the air. The radioactive iodine easily goes into the thyroid and causes cancer. When people take iodine tablets, it fills up the thyroid with non-radioactive iodine which prevents any radioactive iodine from coming in.
Iodine compounds can be used in X-rays because X-rays cannot go through them easily. Some metals are purified using their iodides. Silver iodide is used in photographic film and cloud seeding. Erythrosine is a food coloring that has iodine in it. Iodine can be used to make illegal drugs so it is restricted in some areas. Iodine can be used as a test for reducing agents. Iodine turns colorless when mixed with a reducing agent. Iodine also turns black when mixed with starch. Iodides become colored when mixed with oxidizing agents.
Iodine can irritate skin. Its vapors are irritating to the lungs. It is less toxic than the other halogens, though. 2-3 grams of iodine can kill. Iodides are only toxic in large amounts.

</doc>
<doc id="19395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395" title="Astatine">
Astatine

Astatine is a chemical element. Its atomic number (which is the number of protons in it) is 85, and its atomic weight (which is approximately the number of protons plus the number of neutrons in it) is 210. It is part of the Group 7 (halogens) on the periodic table of elements. Some of its isotopes may be in nature. But because it is extremely unstable (roughly speaking, the atoms fall apart), only about an ounce exists in the Earth's crust at one point in time. It is radioactive. The longest-living isotope At has a half-life of a bit over eight hours.

</doc>
<doc id="19398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19398" title="United States House of Representatives">
United States House of Representatives

The United States House of Representatives is a part of the United States (U. S.) Congress. Congress is the legislature of the U. S. government and makes federal laws. The other part of Congress is the U. S. Senate. There are maximum 435 members in the United States House of Representatives. These members are called U. S. Representatives or just representatives. 
The number of representatives from each state depends on the number of people in that state, the population, but there is at least one U. S. representative from each of the 50 states. Every 10 years, the United States Census Bureau counts the population of the United States. States gain or lose Representatives based on the count. The House of Representatives is in one of the two wings in the U.S. Capitol building. The other wing is for the Senate. Sometimes the House of Representatives is informally called the House. The chairman/chairperson in the U.S. House of Representatives is called the Speaker of the House. The current Speaker is Paul Ryan. 
According to the U.S. Constitution, all bills about raising revenue, which includes taxes, must start in the House of Representatives. Also, the House of Representatives has the sole power to impeach certain officials, such as the president or federal judges. According to the U.S. Constitution, the House of Representatives can expel, or impeach, one of its representatives by a vote of at least two-thirds of its members.
As of 2014, the House has 232 Republicans, 199 Democrats and 4 vacant seats.

</doc>
<doc id="19399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19399" title="Category:Museums">
Category:Museums

Museums are places where people can learn about science, culture, art, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="19400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19400" title="Lourdes Flores Nano">
Lourdes Flores Nano

Dr.Lourdes Celmira Flores Nano (born October 7 1959) is a Peruvian lawyer and politician. She is the leader of the Christian People's Party. She tried to become the mayor of Lima in 2010.
Flores Nano was born in Lima in 1959. She studied law at the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru. She studied for a Phd in Law from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid, one of the world's oldest universities in Madrid, Spain. She was a member of the Lima Municipal Council and then a member of the National Congress of Peru. In 2001 and 2006 she was a candidate in election for the President of Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19401" title="Novel">
Novel

Novels are works of prose fiction. They are longer than short stories. There are many kinds. For example, some are adventures stories, like "Treasure Island" by Robert Louis Stevenson. There are horror (scary) stories like Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein". There are also science fiction novels and humorous novels like "Tom Sawyer" by Mark Twain. Novels in English are usually 150,000 words or more, and have 150 pages or more.
There are many different genres, or categories, of novels. Some of these are:

</doc>
<doc id="19403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19403" title="Fiction">
Fiction

Fiction is any story made up by an author. It is a creation of the author's imagination. It is not based strictly on history or facts.
The opposite of fiction is non-fiction, writing that deals with facts and true events. Often in a library, part of the library is for fiction books and another part of the library is for non-fiction.
The word "fiction" comes from the Latin word "fictum", which means "created". This is a good way to remember what fiction is: if it has been created or made up by somebody, it is fiction. Fiction can be written or told, or acted on stage, in a movie, on television or radio. Usually the purpose of fiction is to entertain. 
However, the dividing line is not always so clear. Fiction with real people or events in it is called "historical fiction", because it is based on things that happened in history. This type of fiction is written so that we can imagine and understand what it was like when those people were alive. Reality can be presented through creative writing, and imagination can open the reader's mind to significant thoughts about the real world. 
In fiction, there are always characters. There is usually a "protagonist", or hero. Sometimes this is a group of people, not one person. You usually support the hero (or heroes.) The protagonist has to face some kind of enemy, usually another character called the "antagonist". The fight between the protagonist and their enemy is called the "conflict".
Plot is a literary term. It is the events that make up a story, particularly as they relate to one another. The events may form a pattern. That pattern may be a sequence, through cause and effect, or how the reader views the story, or simply by coincidence.
In his "Poetics", Aristotle considered plot ("mythos") the most important element of drama—more important than character, for example. A plot must have, Aristotle says, a beginning, a middle, and an end, and the events of the plot must causally relate to one another as being either necessary or probable.
Of the utmost importance to Aristotle is the plot's ability to arouse emotion in the psyche of the audience. In tragedy, the emotions are fear and pity, emotions which he considers in his "Rhetoric".
Gustav Freytag considered plot a narrative structure that divided a story into five parts, like the five acts of a play. These parts are: exposition (of the situation); rising action (through conflict); climax (or turning point); falling action; and resolution.
The climax is the most dangerous and exciting part of the plot. For example, if you were on a rollercoaster, the highest part would be the climax.
The climax usually near to the end of the story, because the whole story has been building up to it (rising action). In an action drama it is the point when the hero or heroine looks like s/he is about to lose, and is in the greatest danger.
Conflict is very important in fiction. Every work of fiction needs a conflict, or problem. There are five basic types of conflict. In modern times, a new one, "Person vs. Technology", has been used.
Person vs. Self is when a character is facing his own fears, confusion or philosophy. Sometimes the character tries to find out who he or she is, and comes to realize it or change it. Sometimes the character struggles to find out what is right or wrong. Although the enemy is inside the character, they can be influenced by outside forces. The struggle of the human being to come to a decision is the base of this type of conflict.
Person vs. Person is when the hero is fighting another person. There is usually more than one time that the hero meets the enemy. For example, if a child is being bullied, that is person vs. person conflict. An example is the conflict between Judah and Messala in "".
Person vs. Society is when the hero's main source of conflict is traditions or ideas. The protagonist is basically fighting what is wrong with the world he lives in. Society itself is often treated as a single character, just as another person is in person vs. person conflict. An example in literature would be "Wuthering Heights" by Emily Brontë.
Person vs. Nature is when a character is fighting against forces of nature. Many films focus on this theme. It is also found in stories about trying to survive in places far away from humans, like Jack London's short story "To Build a Fire".
Person vs. Supernatural is when a character is battling supernatural forces. Sometimes, this force is inside themselves, it is internal. Such stories are sometimes used to represent or criticize Freud's theory of id vs. superego. Bram Stoker's "Dracula" is a good example of this, as well as "Frankenstein" by Mary Shelley and "Christabel" by Samuel Coleridge. It is also very common in comic books.
Person vs. Machine/Technology places a character against robot forces with artificial intelligence. "I, Robot" and the "Terminator" series are good examples of this conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="19405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19405" title="1095">
1095


</doc>
<doc id="19408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19408" title="Oak Lawn, Illinois">
Oak Lawn, Illinois

Oak Lawn is a village in Cook County, Illinois, USA. It is a suburb of Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="19409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19409" title="1607">
1607


</doc>
<doc id="19411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19411" title="500s BC">
500s BC


</doc>
<doc id="19412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19412" title="Fossil fuel">
Fossil fuel

Fossil fuels are fuels that come from very old life forms that decomposed over a long period of time. The three most important fossil fuels are coal, petroleum, and natural gas. Oil and gas are hydrocarbons (molecules that have only hydrogen and carbon in them). Coal is mostly carbon. These fuels are called fossil fuels because they are dug up from underground.
Most of the fuels people burn are fossil fuels. A big use is to make electricity. In power plants fossil fuels, usually coal, are burned to heat water into steam, which pushes a fan-like object called a turbine. When the turbine spins around, magnets inside the turbine make electricity. 
Crude oil can be separated to make various fuels such as LPG, gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel, and diesel fuel. These substances are made by the process of fractional distillation in an oil refinery. 
Fossil fuels from oil are the main fuels in transportation. That means that they are burned in order to move cars, trucks, ships, airplanes, trains and even spacecraft. Fossil fuel has become an important part of modern society and without it, there wouldn't be much transport. 
People also burn fossil fuels to heat their homes. They use it less for this than they did long ago, because it makes things dirty. In many homes, people burn natural gas in a stove for cooking.
Fossil fuels are widely used in construction. In the oil sands in Alberta, about 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas was used per day in 2007 to heat the soil so the oil would come out of the earth.
Fossil fuels produce a lot of pollution when burned. This can be reduced by making the combustion process more efficient, and by using various techniques to reduce the escape of harmful gases. This pollution is responsible for causing the earth to get warmer, called global warming. They are also non-renewable resources, there is only a limited amount of coal, gas, and oil, and it is not possible to make more. Eventually all the fossil fuels will be used. Scientists think that coal will have run out by 2200 and oil by 2040. 
Renewable energy sources like biomass energy such as firewood are being used. Countries are also increasing the use of wind power, tidal energy, and solar energy to generate electricity. Some governments are helping automobile makers to develop electric cars and hybrid cars that will use less oil.

</doc>
<doc id="19418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19418" title="Boston Bruins">
Boston Bruins

The Boston Bruins are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were the first American team in the NHL, in 1924. They have won six Stanley Cup championships, and they lost against the Chicago Blackhawks in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals after winning in 2012.
In their early years, the Bruins won three Stanley Cups: 1929, 1939, and 1941. Ralph "Cooney" Weiland won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion in 1930. Aubrey "Dit" Clapper was also a star player around this time. Then Eddie Shore came along, a huge star in the league on defense. Shore won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player (MVP) four times: in 1933, 1935, 1936 and 1938. Only Gordie Howe and Wayne Gretzky have won it more often. Cecil "Tiny" Thompson was the team's star goaltender.
In the 1940s and 1950s the Bruins had new stars. Milt Schmidt and Bill Cowley were great centers and both won scoring championships and MVP trophies. They were helped by Woody Dumart and Bobby Bauer on wing, and Frank Brimsek replaced Thompson in goal.
The 1960s were not so good for the Bruins. Schmidt retired to become the team's coach and the team did not have many stars. They finished in last place six times out of seven years and did not make the playoffs eight straight seasons. Left wing John Bucyk was their best player.
Bobby Orr began as a defenseman with Boston in 1966. After his rookie (first) season, he won the Norris Trophy as best defenseman in the NHL eight times in a row, and the Bruins became a top team again. He joined with centers Phil Esposito and Derek Sanderson, Bucyk and goalie Gerry Cheevers to lead the Bruins to the Stanley Cup in 1970 and 1972. Orr won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs both years. He also won the Hart Trophy in 1970, 1971, and 1972; Esposito won it in 1969 and 1974. Esposito won five Art Ross Trophies: 1969, 1971, 1972, 1973, and 1974. Orr won it in 1970 and 1975, the only defenseman ever to win the scoring title. The Bruins continued to be a strong team through the late 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s. 
Ray Bourque, who won the Norris Trophy five times, was the team's greatest star in the 1980s and 1990s. He is the team's top career scorer, and the highest scoring defenseman in NHL history. The Bruins won the President's Cup as regular-season champions in 1983 and 1990, and made the Stanley Cup finals in 1988 and 1990. Cam Neely was an important player until the mid-1990s, and Joe Thornton was a top scorer until he was traded to the San Jose Sharks in 2005. The Bruins won the Stanley Cup championship in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="19427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19427" title="George Morrow">
George Morrow

George Morrow (c. 1934 - May 7, 2003) was part of the early microcomputer industry in the United States. Morrow promoted (make popular) and improved the S-100 bus used in many early microcomputers. Morrow was also a member of the Homebrew Computer Club.
Starting in 1976, he designed and sold computers, computer parts, and accessories under several company names, including "Morrow Designs". Morrow's companies built microcomputers that used the CP/M operating system. When IBM started selling their IBM PC personal computer in 1981, Morrow and other CP/M computer makers had trouble competing. Morrow Designs filed for bankruptcy in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="19431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19431" title="Dietary mineral">
Dietary mineral

Dietary minerals are the chemical elements that living things need to have be part of what they eat, other than the four elements carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen which are already very common in living things.
One of the best known examples is calcium, which humans and many other animals need to build strong bones and teeth, among other things.Red meat is rich in iron which is a well known mineral it is important for us to have iron as it creates red blood cells.

</doc>
<doc id="19433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19433" title="Cleveland, England">
Cleveland, England

Cleveland was a non-metropolitan county that existed between 1 April 1974 and 31 March 1996. It was in North East England. The districts which made up the county are now all unitary authorities.

</doc>
<doc id="19434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19434" title="Hungarian language">
Hungarian language

Hungarian is a Finno-Ugric language, which is a member of the Uralic language family.
The group of Finno-Ugric languages also includes Finnish, Estonian, Lappic (Sámi) and some other languages spoken in the Russian Federation. Out of these it is Khanty and Mansi that are the most closely related to Hungarian. The Hungarian name for the language is "magyar".
Hungarian is spoken by about 14 million people. Most of its speakers live in Hungary (around 10 million) and Romania (around 1.5 million), but it is also spoken in Slovakia, the northern part of Serbia (Vojvodina), Ukraine and other countries. Hungarian is the official language of the Republic of Hungary and one of the official languages of the EU (European Union). It is also an official language of the Autonomous Republic of Vojvodina (Serbia) and of some places in the Republic of Slovenia. Hungarians call their language "magyar".
Hungarian has several dialects but they are not too different to make understanding difficult. The only such example may be the dialect of the Csángós of Romania. That dialect is an old and archaic version of the language. 
Hungarian literary language is based on the "Northeastern dialect".
Hungarian grammar is rather different from the grammar of Indo-European languages. People may find this grammar complicated the first time if they speak an Indo-European language, until they realize that it works along some pretty logical rules. 
Hungarian has no "grammatical gender". For example there are no separate words for 'he' and 'she' but there is one pronoun ('ő'). Instead of prepositions (like English 'from' or 'with'), Hungarian has "suffixes" (little words stuck to the end of main words). 'From Budapest' becomes 'Budapestről', and 'with Alexandra' becomes 'Alexandrával' in Hungarian. Another feature of the language is "vowel harmony". This means that suffixes must tone in (harmonize) with the vowel of the main word. To over-simplify it, if they have an 'a' in the word then the suffix will also contain an 'a' ('fa' - 'tree' and 'fával' - 'with a tree'), and if their word has an 'e' then its suffix too will get an 'e' (teve - 'camel' and 'tevével' - with a camel). In Hungarian they must put the stress always on the first syllable (the beginning) of the words.
Although Hungarian is not an Indo-European language, its lexicon (all the words of the language together) has many words from Slavic and Turkic languages, and also from German.
Hungarian is written in the Latin alphabet. Some letters have accents (dots or commas above them) so while the English alphabet has 26 letters, Hungarian has 44. The writing of Hungarian is largely phonetic. This means that each letter has its own pronunciation, and it is easy to read any text once they learn how the letters are pronounced.
The earliest known written Hungarian words are to be found in a Latin document, the "Foundation Charter of the Abbey of Tihany" (1054). The "Funeral Oration and Prayer" (1192-95) and "Old Hungarian Lament of Mary" (13th century) are the earliest known continuous Hungarian texts. In the 16th century the first printed Hungarian texts came out. Modern Hungarian literary language appeared in the 18th and 19th centuries. Hungarian replaced Latin as the official language of Hungary first between 1844 and 1849 and then in 1867.

</doc>
<doc id="19435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19435" title="Hungarian">
Hungarian

Hungarian can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19438" title="Category:Monkeys">
Category:Monkeys

All monkeys species and groups should be placed in one of the subcategories.

</doc>
<doc id="19444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19444" title="Rochester, New York">
Rochester, New York

Rochester is the third-largest city in the U.S. state of New York. It has a little over 200,000 people living in it and over a million people living in the metropolitan area. It is on the southern shore of Lake Ontario. It is between the cities of Buffalo and Syracuse.
Rochester is on the shore of Lake Ontario, one of the Great Lakes. Also, the Genesee River flows through it. In the area near Rochester, there are many streams, large hills called drumlins, and lakes, such as the Finger Lakes. The weather in Rochester is warm in the summer and cold in the winter, with a lot of snow falling in the winter and early spring.
Rochester is the headquarters of Eastman Kodak, a company that makes cameras and camera film. Rochester is also the home to universities such as the University of Rochester and the Rochester Institute of Technology.

</doc>
<doc id="19445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19445" title="Dragon (disambiguation)">
Dragon (disambiguation)

When people talk about dragons, they can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="19446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19446" title="Shop">
Shop

A shop or store is a place where people can go to buy items that they need or want. People might go to a shop to buy food, clothes, furniture, jewelry, or many other things. There are loads of shops in the world people can buy there things from.
People might also go to a repair shop if something is broken, and they want the shop to fix it. For example, someone might bring a broken bicycle to a bicycle repair shop.
Shops can be anything from large supermarket chains to small businesses. 
Shops any countries: North America, South America, Africa, Asia, Western Europe, Eastern Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="19447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19447" title="One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (movie)">
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (movie)

One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a 1975 American drama movie. It is set on a locked psychiatric ward in 1963 in Oregon. It is based on the novel of the same name by Ken Kesey. Milos Forman directed the movie, and Jack Nicholson plays the lead role.
It was the first movie to win all five main Academy Awards since "It Happened One Night" in 1934. These awards included Best Picture, Best Actor (Nicholson), Best Actress (Louise Fletcher), Best Director (Forman), and Best Adapted Screenplay.
This movie was the 20th best ever, according to the American Film Industry's AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.
The novel's writer, Kesey, did not like the movie. This was because it did not take the perspective (view) of a Native American character, Chief Bromden (a more important character in the book than in the movie). The screenplay was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="19448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19448" title="Dr. Strangelove">
Dr. Strangelove

Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (better known as only Dr. Strangelove) is a 1964 American black comedy movie directed and produced by Stanley Kubrick, and starring Peter Sellers.
During the movie's ending, the world is blown up by atomic bombs. Vera Lynn's recording of "We'll Meet Again" is played. It was a famous song during World War II.
In 1989, the United States Library of Congress chose this movie to be kept in the National Film Registry. This means the movie will be protected from damage that happens to older film that was used to make movies.

</doc>
<doc id="19450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19450" title="Animal husbandry">
Animal husbandry

Animal husbandry is the taking care of and breeding of animals, particularly livestock. Animal husbandry has been around for a very long time. In rural areas and less developed countries, parents often teach their children how to care for their farm animals. 4H is an organization that also teaches children how to raise and care for farm animals.
Some people who specialize in animal husbandry try to make sure that the animals are well cared for, while others try to make sure that the animals cost as little as possible to raise.
Examples of animal husbandry are:
Animal husbandry includes domestication of animals to obtain animal products (like milk, meat, wool, skin, hyde), and use them for transportation.

</doc>
<doc id="19455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19455" title="Walt Disney World Resort">
Walt Disney World Resort

The Walt Disney World Resort, also called Walt Disney World or Disney World, is a resort near Orlando, Florida. It opened on October 1, 1971 with only the Magic Kingdom theme park. It has since added Epcot (October 1, 1982), Disney's Hollywood Studios (May 1, 1989) and Disney's Animal Kingdom (April 22, 1998). It also has 2 water parks, 23 hotels, a campground, and Downtown Disney, which is a shopping area with souvenir shops, restaurants, and sports activities. In Downtown Disney is an indoor arcade called Disney Quest. 
The resort was inspired by the dreams of Walt Disney and his creation of Disneyland in California. Its original theme park, Magic Kingdom, is designed similarly to Disneyland. Walt Disney created "Disney World" to have a vacation resort that was much different from Disneyland's one-day visit; this includes a much wider variety of sports, recreation, themed resort hotels and entertainment. It is 50 square miles long.The theme parks come with lots of different and fun rides and you can go swimming at the water parks. Sometimes, Disney characters walk around the parks to enjoy the younger ones. The rides are related to the books and films that Disney created.
The resort is approximately as large as San Francisco and twice the size of Manhattan. It has many exciting destinations including theme parks, water parks and more.
There are 4 theme parks in Walt Disney World. Each of them have numerous rides, restaurants and entertainment activities to witness. You can meet Disney characters there and have fun viewing different parades.
There are 2 water parks for .
Since it is one of the most popular destinations for a lot of tourists as well as locals, the parks during peak times can get really crowded. Disney's Magic Kingdom alone records more than 18,588,000 visitors annually. Crowded parks are recorded in summer months and holiday times like Christmas and Thanksgiving.If you want to avoid long lines, it is better to plan a trip in the off seasons.
It is not possible to cover the entire amusement park in a single visit. There is a lot of planning required to see the best of Disney World. It is beneficial to book tickets from ticketing and travel information websites. Not only you get great discounts and but you don't have to worry about all the planning including the restaurant reservations, resort bookings . On top of that, many sites offer attractive packages you can go for too.

</doc>
<doc id="19456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19456" title="Harp">
Harp

The harp is a musical instrument. It is the second biggest string instrument in an orchestra. It dates back to 4000 BC when the Egyptians used them in holy places. Christian artists often draw angels playing harps in Heaven.
Harp is a string instrument. Each string is tight, so it makes the right sound or note for that string. The strings are tied to the frame.
The frame is usually a wood triangle. It must be strong, so that the many tight strings do not break it. 
The side of the triangle that leans on the player's body, is the sound-box. Empty boxes can make sounds louder. 
The top side of the triangle has a lot of pegs in it. There is one peg for each string on the harp. The top of each string is tied to one peg, and twisted around the peg. The player turns the peg to make the string more tight or less tight. This is how the player makes each string make the right note. The bottom of each string is tied to the sound-box.
The last side of the triangle is called the pillar. The oldest harps from Egypt did not have pillars. If the strings were too tight, they would break the harp. Adding a pillar to a harp frame makes the frame very strong, so that the strings will not break it.
Harp players pluck the strings with their fingers. This makes the strings move so that the strings make sounds. Each string sound is a different musical note. Harp players play songs by plucking the strings in the right order and at the right time. More than one string can be plucked at the same time. When the harp player wants a note to stop, they touch that string softly, so that it stops moving.
There are many different kinds of harps. The two main kinds are folk harps and pedal harps.
Folk harps are the older kind of harp. Each string makes one note. They are usually tuned so that playing each string in order sounds like playing all the white notes on a piano in order. This is called a diatonic scale. In some places, they are tuned so that playing each string in order sounds like playing all the black notes on a piano in order. This is called a pentatonic scale.
Folk harps can be found in many different sizes. The smallest ones can be less than half a meter tall. The biggest ones can be almost 1.5 meters tall, and have a foot so they can stand on the ground by themselves. They can be too big to be lifted by one person.
The number of strings varies on folk harps from less than 20 to more than 40.
Pedal harps were invented during the 1800's CE, by a man in France. This is the kind of harp that is used in a Symphony Orchestra. Pedal harps are about two meters tall and have about 50 strings. The lowest and highest notes on a pedal harp are the same as the lowest and highest notes on a piano. They are very heavy, and need more than one person to move them. The frame is usually made out of metal.
The pedal harp is tuned like the white keys on a piano (a diatonic scale). There are seven pedals to let the harp player play songs in different musical keys. Each pedal has three places. For the "A" pedal, place-1 makes all the "A" strings on the harp sound like "A"-flat. Place-2 makes all the "A" strings sound like a normal "A" ("A"-natural). Place-3 makes all the "A" strings sound like "A"-sharp. 
Cross-strung harps are chromatic and consist of two rows of strings. They cross near to the middle of the string without touching. The strings are in the order of the piano keys (7 plus 5) or in the order of the 6-plus-6 system.
Some instruments have the word harp in their name, but they are not really harps. The harp is such an old musical instrument, that people sometimes say "harp" when they mean any kind of instrument.

</doc>
<doc id="19457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19457" title="1472">
1472


</doc>
<doc id="19458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19458" title="Kassam Stadium">
Kassam Stadium

Kassam Staudium is an arena in Oxford, England. It is where Oxford United F.C. plays. It is the biggest arena in the blue square premier league conference national

</doc>
<doc id="19460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19460" title="Nucleotide">
Nucleotide

Nucleotides are chemical compounds, the building blocks of the nucleic acids RNA and DNA. 
A nucleotide is composed of a nucleobase (nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose), and one phosphate group. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. 
In DNA, the purine bases are adenine and guanine, while the pyrimidines are thymine and cytosine. RNA uses uracil in place of thymine. Adenine always pairs with thymine by 2 hydrogen bonds, while guanine pairs with cytosine through 3 hydrogen bonds, each due to their unique structures.

</doc>
<doc id="19465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19465" title="Voting">
Voting

Voting is when a group of people decide something by saying what they want. It can be for electing a leader or representative, passing a law, and other things. When people are done voting, the votes are counted (often by machines) and the side that gets the most votes wins.
Voting can be done in small groups (friends deciding what to do over weekend), societies (building committee deciding on whether to paint a building), nations (voting for president or - in some cases - voting for independence) and global (United Nations deciding how to limit nuclear weapon development). 
Usually the side that gets most votes will win. This is called Majority rule. 
In some cases, a certain percentage may be needed to win a vote. This is often the case when voting to change the constitution of a country, or when electing a government official. When choosing a government official, there may be several rounds. In the first round, votes can be cast for all candidates. In the second round, only the two or three candidates with the most votes can be chosen. 

</doc>
<doc id="19466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19466" title="Joule">
Joule

A joule ( or sometimes ) is a unit in the SI system. That means that scientists use it. It measures energy; usually in scientific or electrical appliances . It is named after James Prescott Joule. 
A joule equals one newton multiplied by a meter (1J = 1N × 1m). It is related to the watt (a unit of power): one watt equals one joule per second.
It is also the work done passing one amp through a resistance of one ohm for one second. 

</doc>
<doc id="19467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19467" title="Carl Friedrich Gauss">
Carl Friedrich Gauss

Carl Friedrich Gauss (pronunciation: , Latin: Carolus Fridericus Gauss) (30 April 1777 – 23 February 1855) was a famous mathematician from Göttingen, Germany. Gauss contributed to many areas of learning. Most of his work was about number theory and astronomy.
He was born in Braunschweig. That city was then part of the duchy of Braunschweig-Lüneburg. Today the city is part of Lower Saxony. As a child, he was a prodigy, meaning he was very clever. When he was 3 years old, he told his father that he had incorrectly measured something on his complicated payroll. Gauss was correct. Gauss also taught himself to read. 
When he was in elementary school, his teacher once tried to keep the children busy, telling them to add up all the numbers from 1 to 100. Gauss did it quickly, like this: 1 + 100 = 101, 2 + 99 = 101, 3 + 98 = 101, and so on. There were a total of 50 pairs, so 50 × 101 = 5,050. The formula is formula_1. According to this website, the problem given to Gauss was actually more difficult to do.
The Duke of Brunswick gave Gauss a fellowship to the Collegium Carolinum, where he attended from 1792 to 1795. This meant that the Duke paid for the education of Carl Friedrich Gauss at the Collegium. After this, Gauss went to the University of Göttingen, from 1795 to 1798.
When Gauss was 23, scientists spotted the asteroid Ceres but they did not see it for long enough to know its orbit. Gauss made calculations that let them locate it.
Later in life Gauss stopped working on pure math and turned to physics. He did work in electromagnetism.
Gauss wrote Disquisitiones Arithmeticae which is a book about number theory. In that book he proved the law of Quadratic reciprocity. He also was the first mathematician to explain Modular arithmetic in a very detailed way. Before Gauss, mathematicians had used modular arithmetic in some cases but did not know much about using it broadly. 

</doc>
<doc id="19468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19468" title="Grand Canyon">
Grand Canyon

The Grand Canyon is a famous canyon in Arizona, formed by the Colorado River. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and a National Park of the United States. It is also one of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World.
The Grand Canyon is 277 miles (446 km) long, up to 18 miles (29 km) wide and is over a mile (1.83 km) (6000 feet) deep in places. Nearly two billion years of the Earth's geological history have been exposed as the Colorado River and its tributaries cut their channels through layer after layer of rock while the Colorado Plateau was uplifted by tectonic action.
Evidence suggests the Colorado River established its course through the canyon at least 17 million years ago. Since that time, the Colorado River continued to erode and form the canyon to the point we see it at today. 
The result of all the erosion is one of the most complete geologic columns on the planet. There are nearly 40 major sedimentary rock layers exposed in the Grand Canyon and in the Grand Canyon National Park area. They range in age from about 200 million to nearly 2 billion years old.
Most were laid down in warm, shallow seas, near ancient, long-gone sea shores in western North America. Both marine and terrestrial sediments are represented, including fossilized sand dunes from an ancient desert. There are at least 14 known unconformities in the geologic record found in the Grand Canyon area.
The major rock exposures in the Grand Canyon range in age from the almost 2 billion year old Vishnu Schist at the bottom of the Inner Gorge to the 230 million year old Kaibab Limestone on the rim.
Shown in the diagram, there is a gap of about one billion years between the stratum that is about 500 million years old (blue) and the lower level, which is about 1.5 billion years old at the top (green). This large unconformity indicates a period of erosion between two periods of deposition.
Many of the formations were deposited in warm shallow seas, near-shore environments (such as beaches), and swamps. The seashore repeatedly advanced and retreated over the edge of a proto-North America.
The great depth of the Grand Canyon and especially the height of its strata (most of which formed below sea level) was caused by 5,000 to 10,000 feet (1500 to 3000 m) uplift of the Colorado Plateau. This started about 65 million years ago during the Laramide period of orogeny (mountain-building). This uplift steepened the gradient of the Colorado River and its tributaries, which increased their speed and their ability to cut through rock.
Weather conditions during the ice ages also increased the amount of water in the Colorado River drainage system. The ancestral Colorado River responded by cutting its channel faster and deeper.
The base level and course of the Colorado River (or its ancestral equivalent) changed 5.3 million years ago when the Gulf of California opened and lowered the river's base level (its lowest point). This increased the rate of erosion and cut nearly all of the Grand Canyon's current depth by 1.2 million years ago. The stepped appearance of the rocks was caused by their varied resistance to the flow of water.
Between three million and 100,000 years ago, volcanic activity deposited ash (tuff) and lava over the area which at times completely obstructed the river. These volcanic rocks are the youngest in the canyon.
Many people come from around the world to visit the Grand Canyon. People can also take trips floating on the Colorado River in boats and rafts. Some people like to hike in the Grand Canyon. The land on the north side of the Grand Canyon is called the "North Rim". The land on the south side of the Grand Canyon is called the "South Rim". There are trails leading from the North Rim and the South Rim to the bottom of the canyon. These trails lead to a place at the bottom of the canyon called "Phantom Ranch". Phantom Ranch has a campground and cabins where hikers can spend the night. Some people also ride mules into the Grand Canyon. Most people who visit the Grand Canyon drive in cars to the South Rim and just look at the canyon from the rim and take pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="19469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19469" title="1490s">
1490s


</doc>
<doc id="19471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19471" title="Dairy product">
Dairy product

Dairy products are foods that are made from animal milk. Usually, they are made from the milk of cows and goats, but they can be made from the milk of other animals as well.
Dairy products include milk, butter, cheese, yogurt, and ice cream.

</doc>
<doc id="19472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19472" title="Alberto Fujimori">
Alberto Fujimori

Alberto Fujimori (born July 28, 1938) was the President of Peru from 1990-2000.
He is still remembered in Peru for defeating Shinning Path, the peace with Ecuador and recovering the economy after the presidency of Alan García.
In 2001, Fujimori's head of intelligence, Vladimiro Montesinos, was accused of doing illegal things. People thought that Fujimori was also involved. After that, Fujimori resigned to the Presidency of Peru.
Valentín Paniagua was elected president by the Congress soon after Fujimori resigned. Fujimori went to Japan, because he is a citizen there. Japan protected him from Peruvian law since they do not find any valid accusation.
In 2005, Fujimori was detained in Chile. The Peruvian government is now trying to bring him back to Peru in order to have him face trial

</doc>
<doc id="19477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19477" title="List of Presidents of Peru">
List of Presidents of Peru

This is a list of Presidents of Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19478" title="New York Rangers">
New York Rangers

The New York Rangers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They play in Madison Square Garden in New York City. The team began in 1926, and has won four Stanley Cup championships.
The Rangers were started by a promoter named Tex Rickard. Newspapers began calling the new team "Tex's Rangers", a play on the famous police force known as the Texas Rangers. The team picked up on the nickname, and have been called "Rangers" ever since.
The Rangers were successful in their early years, winning the Stanley Cup in 1928, 1933, and 1940. Bill Cook won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring leader in 1927 and 1933, and Bryan Hextall won it in 1942. "Babe" Pratt was a star defenceman around this time.
The Rangers did very poorly in the mid-1940s, but improved by 1950, when they lost the Stanley Cup final in overtime of the deciding game seven to the Detroit Red Wings. Buddy O'Connor won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1948, goaltender Chuck Rayner won it in 1950, and Andy Bathgate won it in 1959.
The team did not make the finals again until 1972, when they lost to the Boston Bruins. They were led by players such as Jean Ratelle, Brad Park, Ed Giacomin, and Rod Gilbert. The Rangers made the finals again in 1979, losing to the Montreal Canadians.
There was another team in New York, the Americans. The Americans felt that the Rangers were favoured by Madison Square Garden, and that their team folded in 1942 because of the Rangers. The Americans' coach and general manager, Red Dutton, claimed the Rangers would never win another Stanley Cup as long as he lived. This became known as Dutton's curse.
Red Dutton died in 1987, and his curse came true. Finally, the Rangers improved, winning the President's Cup as regular-season champions in 1992 and 1994. Mark Messier won the Hart Trophy in 1992, and Brian Leetch won two Norris Trophies as best defence. They led the Rangers to the Stanley Cup in 1994, after 54 years of not winning.
Recently, the Rangers have been a poor team, missing the playoffs many years in a row. However, in 2005-06, the team has improved again, much due to the play of star Jaromír Jágr and rookie (first year) goalie Henrik Lundqvist.

</doc>
<doc id="19480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19480" title="Headstone">
Headstone

A headstone, gravestone or tombstone is a marker, normally made from stone, that is used to identify the person that is buried beneath it (in the grave).
These markers can be plain or beautifully carved with writing (inscriptions) and pictures. 

</doc>
<doc id="19481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19481" title="Plasma">
Plasma

Plasma could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19483" title="Blood plasma">
Blood plasma

Blood plasma is the yellow liquid part of blood. In normal blood, the blood cells are suspended in the plasma. 
Plasma makes up about 55% of the total blood volume. It is mostly water (90% by volume) and contains dissolved proteins, glucose, clotting factors, mineral ions, hormones and carbon dioxide. Plasma is the transport medium for excretion. 
In hospitals, blood plasma is prepared like this. An anti-coagulant stops the blood clotting. Then tubes of blood are spun very fast in a centrifuge. The blood cells go to the bottom of the tubes. The plasma is poured into another container. 
Hospitals may give patients:
Blood serum is blood plasma without fibrinogen or the other clotting factors (that is, whole blood minus both the cells "and" the clotting factors).
Plasmapheresis is a medical therapy which involves taking out blood plasma, treating it, and putting it back in the patient.
Whole plasma may be stored frozen, or it may be stored dry. Dried plasma can be flown anywhere in the world, and is vital for the armed forces. The method was invented in the USA in 1940, and used widely in World War II. The Army/Navy standard pack was two tin cans, each with 400cc bottles inside. One held the plasma, the other distilled (pure) water. The plasma could be restored in three minutes, and remained fresh for about four hours. 

</doc>
<doc id="19484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19484" title="Vancouver Canucks">
Vancouver Canucks

The Vancouver Canucks are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL).
The Canucks were first an amateur team in the Pacific Coast Hockey League (PCHL), winning the championship in 1946 and 1948. In 1952, the jo
The Canucks joined the NHL in 1970. They were not a good team at first, though they won their division in 1975. Andre Boudrias was a star for the team at this time. The team made the Stanley Cup finals in 1982, which surprised many people, since they had finished below average in the regular season. Goaltender Richard Brodeur, along with forwards Stan Smyl, Thomas Gradin, and Darcy Rota, led the team. Coach Roger Neilson and some players raised white towels on top of their hockey sticks to "surrender" to the referees, who they thought were unfair (a white flag means surrender or "I give up"). After that, the fans all waved white flags during Canucks playoff games (this is called "Towel Power"). The team lost four games to zero in the finals to the New York Islanders.
In the late 1980s, players such as Toni Tanti and Petri Skriko led the team. They made the finals again in 1994, due to players such as goaltender Kirk MacLean, the "Russian Rocket" Pavel Bure (who scored the most goals in the NHL that year), Trevor Linden, and Cliff Ronning. However, they lost the series four games to three to the New York Rangers.
The Canucks did poorly in the late 1990s, but improved in the 2000s. Markus Naslund came second in scoring in 2002 and 2003, and was named the Pearson Trophy winner as players' choice for the best player in 2003. Todd Bertuzzi, Matthias Ohlund, and Ed Jovanovski were also important players who helped lead the team to the division title in 2004. However, they lost in overtime of deciding game seven to the Calgary Flames in the first round of the playoffs (just as they had done in 1989), and the Flames went to the finals (just like 1989).
The Canucks just missed the playoffs in 2006. Two of the young stars, identical twins Daniel and Henrik Sedin, along with players such as Anson Carter, were important to the team that year.
On April 8, 2014, the Canucks fired General Manager Mike Gillis. Not too long afterward, they announced that they had hired Trevor Linden as their new General Manager.

</doc>
<doc id="19491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19491" title="Category:South Korea">
Category:South Korea


</doc>
<doc id="19492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19492" title="Folding">
Folding

Fold or folding could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19494" title="Category:Korea">
Category:Korea


</doc>
<doc id="19495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495" title="Category:Energy">
Category:Energy


</doc>
<doc id="19499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19499" title="Mi Reflejo">
Mi Reflejo

Mi Reflejo is the first Spanish-language album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera. It was released on 2000. There are 11 songs in this album. Six of them are new songs. Five of them are from her first album "Christina Aguilera" but in Spanish.
This album won a Grammy Award as Best Latin Pop Album in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="19502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19502" title="Behavior">
Behavior

Behaviour (or behavior) is what an animal or plant does or how it acts. Behaviours may be conscious or unconscious. They may be inherited or learned.
In experiments, behaviour is the observed reaction which occurs when an organism is given a stimulus. Some organisms are more complicated than others and may be more aware of their surroundings. If their behaviour is conscious it means that they know what they are doing. If they are not aware of what they are doing this is unconscious behaviour. 
Humans will pull their hand back without thinking if they accidentally touch something hot. This is done because we (and other animals) inherit nervous system reflexes which cause us to pull away from the thing that is causing the pain.
Behaviour is linked to the nervous system as well as the endocrine system. The nervous system reacts, and notices what happens. The hormone system is much slower. It makes some kinds of behaviour more, or less, likely. A simple example is the change from being a child to an adult. This involves a whole range of hormones which affect growth and behaviour.
Behaviour is also linked to learning. Organisms which are more complicated can learn better than those that are simpler. However, even the simplest animals show habituation, which is a primitive kind of learning. For organisms, learning means that they change their behaviour because they remember having been in that situation before and know how to react.
People often use the word "behaviour" to mean the way people interact with (behave towards) one another. Children are taught what is good behaviour and what is bad behaviour. Good behaviour is about being polite and thoughtful to other people. It is the kind of behaviour that people in a society expect from others.

</doc>
<doc id="19503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19503" title="Ankle">
Ankle

In anatomy, the ankle is the joint that links the foot to the leg.

</doc>
<doc id="19507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19507" title="Tangsudo">
Tangsudo

Tangsudo, dangsudo or tang soo do () is a Korean martial art. It is considered as Korean karate.
The name "tangsudo" means "the way of Chinese hands". In the Korean peninsula several schools of martial arts had been prohibited by Japanese invaders for 35 years, and they went out from secret at the end of the Second World War. They were known as schools of tangsudo. In the modern Korea, the first school of tangsudo was Chungdokwan, founded in 1944 by the master WonKukLee. As a result of the liberation of Korean nation, which was happened 15th August 1945, other four schools were opened: Mudokkwan, Songmukwan, Chidokwan, and Changmukwan. Other schools ("kwan") were added to the list after the end of the civil war between north and south (1950-1953). In December 1955, with the approval of the president of Republic of South Korea, Singman Rhee, a meeting of the founders of the main schools was called. The intention of this meeting was to unify the different schools and to give the name and the form to the national martial art. The name should be related neither with China, nor with Japan ("tangsu"="Chinese hands" and its Japanese pronunciation is "karate").
Among a lot of already postulated names there was "Taekwondo", proposed by a General named Choi Hong Hee. In 1961 the "Korean Association of Taesudo" rises. Mudukkwan of Hwang Kee and Ydokwan of Byong Yun Kwei remained anchored to the tradition. The new organization dismembered the technical inheritance of the old tangsudo in 1962. The sporting combat with the use of jumps, kicks and fists formed taesudo briefly; the techniques of personal defense with the use of levers and throws (grappling) became "hapkido". On the other hand, the techniques of "neikung" (internal work), which control breathing, energy (Ki) and the mental concentration, became not very noticeable. In 1964 the organization changed its name once again into "Korean Association of Taekwondo". That name remain ultimate. 
In 1966, "International Taekwondo Federation" is born. Its aim was to spread out the new-born discipline in the rest of the world. Its founder is the Korean general Choi. In 1971 Taekwondo becomes national sport of South Korea for presidential decree of the president Park Chung Hee. In 1973, "World Taekwondo Federation" is born, presided by Dr Un Yong Kim. It was founded in opposition to the ITF. The ITF, after a series of continual changes, will have the support of the North Korea. Meanwhile, the WTF of Doctor Kim reaches the Olympic Games: Seoul 1988, Barcelona 1992. So, it is an official Olympic sport and no more martial art. The schools, which were faithful to tangsudo had to choose the strategy of the emigration, by installing them outside of Korea, in America, Europe, Southern Africa, etc., to maintain live and unaltered the message of the ancient, wise men of Orient.
There are many stances in the tangsudo. Some of them are basic, for example "the stance of preparation"; the others need more balance, such as "the stance on one foot" or "the stance of the crane". 
Basic techniques are simple and effective. The students learn all the basic techniques (blocks, blows, kicks) which can be found in the traditional art of tangsudo. "Dojang" (schools of the tangsudo), gives special importance to the "art", not only to fighting. The hand techniques involve, amongst others, many different fist techniques and "knife-hand" techniques. Each of them has a correct form and special practical use, and they are used in blocking and in attack. The tangsudo is the martial art which gives much attention to foot techniques and to flexibility. They are also used for both blocking and attacking. 
In the traditional method, the student has to learn the basics first of all, later he does repeatedly the fight of one step and the fight of three steps. The fight of one step teaches how to direct attention, but the fight of three steps teaches him how to move forward and to move backward, as well as how to use a distance. Together, they give the belief in student's abilities, and the student needs this belief in order to successfully block and attack in the free fight. 
The teachers give attention to the importance of the Principles and Creed of Tangsudo, the students learn discipline and respect. The self-confidence, the concentration and the control are also underlined, because they are important aspects of everyday life. 
The students do regularly the basic techniques with marching almost during every lesson. This helps them to understand the dynamics of a movement and this improves the technique by repetition. The basics teach them good balance and good stance. 
The forms are the sequences of the basic techniques. They are fixed in advance. The forms in the tangsudo are obtained from different styles of martial arts. Indeed, the majority of them is the versions of karate kata. They show the special practical use of all the basic techniques in a variety of situations. The form is considered as if the performer of the form were defending himself against many enemies. The "hyong" are arranged patterns of techniques which the students do regularly at all levels. The study of the forms increases abilities of understanding, of learning, and of remembering. Forms change the shape of the basic techniques and they teach the strategy, the tactics, the choosing of the right moment, and the balance. If the tangsudo is treated as "the art for the art", the forms are easily learned and they are similar to a kind of dance in presentation. While the student advances in ability, the "hyong" become more complicated and become the challenge. Forms are a part of the training of tangsudo which a student can easily do regularly almost anywhere. 
The fight of training gives the chance to use freely all the techniques against one or some opponents. Self-control is important. Proper choosing of the right moment, position and methods of passing through the defenses of an opponent are also exercised. Although students may use helmets, gloves and boots filled with soft material, the rule of avoiding any contact is respected. 
This exercise lets the person who is being trained practice techniques of self-defence against a known attack in a controlled way. The aim is the development of responses to certain situation without conscious thought. This allows to learn correct distance and choosing of the right moment, which are two factors of deciding importance in a real fight. This also gives self-confidence and control. This is a way of practising that is very controlled, safe, and without contact. 
The free fight allows make continuous use of the techniques against the other person in a controlled environment. The aim is to defend oneself in an unknown situation. Attention is given to safety at all times. According to the traditional method, the student need not hit a heavy bag to increase the power of his blows and to prepare himself for free fight. That is because the students uses of control, not contact. The students stop their blows close to the target. Therefore, if in a real fight they decide to hit the target, they can do it easily. 
According to the traditional theory, if the student makes contact constantly, it will be difficult to control his actions when he needs. But if he always makes continuous use of control, he can easily hit when he needs. If the student constantly makes contact during free fight, his mind will become wild. But if the student makes continuous use of controlled fight, his mind will become more controlled. Both states of mind can spread over his life outside of class. Because full contact is not allowed, the students have no need to use strong protectors (things that protect). Using boxing gloves and thick feet protectors leads them to hit strongly. And when they hit while wearing such things, they does not feel whether their technique is correct. In order to avoid this problem, the traditional masters should make a choice the light protectors of fists and of insteps. They suffice to prevent injury when the contact accidentally occurs. 
According to the modern method, the free fight is similar to fights in kickboxing. The students use boxing gloves, protectors of the feet, and protectors of the head. 
Whether free fight is aimed at competition or at fight on the street, the student should make a great effort to improve his endurance (power of enduring). That is a reason that the student needs to have good basics and good skills of the fight of one step and of three steps; they develop the student's endurance. It will not happen immediately; usually two or three months are necessary in order to develop the endurance. The important part of it is proper breathing. The student has to breathe at the right time when he hits or he blocks. If he stops his breath when he does an action, he can still do the action, but he will become gradually tired as time passes. Finally he will lose his ability to continue. On the other hand, each time he breathes in and breathes out correctly, he extends the amount of time when he can continue to fight. 
Training of self-defence teaches a student how to defend himself against grabs, holds and locks. It also contains how to deal with situations where it is necessary to defend oneself without causing permanent physical wound to his attacker and how to use pressure points. "Jayu-daeryeon" is perfect in order to improve the self-defence ability. The student can combine any techniques: kicks, punches, blows to feet (sweeps), takedowns and overthrows. 
Breaking of the boards is a favorite occupation of many students and spectators. Breaking shows the level of the students' techniques and it helps them understand what effect their techniques can have on a target. It is used during tests of movement to a higher rank and attention is given to safety at all times. This occupation teaches to focus the mind and to direct attention correctly towards the technique. This also helps the students to pass their barriers of the mind, and improves their belief in their abilities. 

</doc>
<doc id="19514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19514" title="Annie Hall">
Annie Hall

Annie Hall is a 1977 American romantic comedy movie from United Artists. Woody Allen directed and stars in it. At first it was called "Anhedonia", then "It Had To Be Jew", but these titles would not sell the movie. "Annie Hall" has been considered a biography of Allen's real life, but the actor has denied this claim.
The movie takes place in New York City and Los Angeles, California. It tells the story of Alvy Singer, a comedian from Brooklyn, who is interested in death. He has an affair with the title character (played by Diane Keaton), who loves life.
Alvy says his Brooklyn house was below a roller coaster on Coney Island. His father was the owner of a place that had bumper cars.
"Annie Hall" is noted for its use of special elements such as double exposure (two pictures in one) and magic themes in a real setting.
There is an animated scene with a cartoon version of Allen, and the Witch from Disney's "Snow White".
The movie won four Academy Awards:
Allen was nominated for Best Actor.
The movie won one Golden Globe Award, for Best Actress in Musical or Comedy (Diane Keaton). It was nominated for three more: Best Motion Picture (Musical or Comedy), Best Director (Woody Allen), and Best Actor in Musical or Comedy (Woody Allen). The film also won the BAFTA Award for Best Film and the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
It has been called one of the best comedy movies of all time. It has appeared on IMDb's Top 250 List, and was number thirty on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. In 1992, it was selected to keep in the United States National Film Registry.
Many of today's romantic comedy movies have been influenced by "Annie Hall". The tie that was worn by Keaton's character was popular at the time of the movie's release.
Christopher Walken, who would later become more famous, had his first major role as the title character's brother.

</doc>
<doc id="19517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19517" title="Hayao Miyazaki">
Hayao Miyazaki

His company made the animated movies "Spirited Away" (2001), "My Neighbor Totoro" (1988), "Kiki's Delivery Service" (1989), "Porco Rosso" (1992) and "Princess Mononoke" (1997).
His company is named Studio Ghibli. In 2001, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature for "Spirited Away". It was the first anime to win the award in that category.
During a press conference at Italy's Venice Film Festival, he announced that he was going to retire from the production of feature-length films.
Miyazaki announced his retirement on September 2, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="19520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19520" title="Gasoline">
Gasoline

Gasoline , or petrol , is a toxic, clear liquid that is mostly used as a fuel in internal combustion engines. It is made by boiling petroleum, a fossil fuel. In a distillation process, petroleum is heated to a very high temperature, then it separates into its components, one of them is gasoline. This is an expensive process. It is made mostly of octane (CH), a hydrocarbon.
Gasoline is sold at gas stations (petrol stations). In order to burn properly in high-compression internal combustion engines, each brand of gasoline includes gasoline additives. So, the exact make up of gasoline is different at different stations. Gasoline is graded by its octane rating that measures how well it will burn. Most car engines can burn "regular" gasoline which has an octane rating of 87. Precision-made engines require or prefer "premium" gasoline with an octane rating of 93. Most stations offer three different mixtures of gasoline with three separate octane ratings and prices.
Gasoline is most often used in vehicles like cars, vans, etc. Gasoline can be used in a wide variety of other things that we use every day, such as lawnmowers, leaf blowers, and small boat motors. Some larger vehicles like trucks or ships may use diesel fuel instead of gasoline. 
Gasoline is very dangerous. It can explode when an electric spark lights it. It is also harmful if a human drinks it or if it gets on the skin. It hurts the environment and human health by creating poisonous gases such as carbon monoxide. If a gasoline engine is used indoors or in a closed space, the carbon monoxide can cause death in minutes. Many people die every year from using gasoline-powered generators indoors, or leaving vehicles running inside a garage. Electric cars such as the Nissan Leaf do not use gasoline, create no carbon monoxide, are better for the environment, and are safe to leave running in a garage.
The US accounts for about 44% of the world’s gasoline consumption. In 2003 The US consumed , which equates to 1.3 gigalitres of gasoline each day (about 360 million US or 300 million imperial gallons). The US used about 510 billion litres (138 billion US gal/115 billion imp gal) of gasoline in 2006, of which 5.6% was mid-grade and 9.5% was premium grade.
Western countries have among the highest usage rates per person.
Unlike the US, countries in Europe impose substantial taxes on fuels such as gasoline. For example, price for gasoline in Europe is more than twice that in the US.
Because of the low fuel taxes, the retail price of gasoline in the US is subject to greater changes (than outside the US) when calculated as a percentage of cost-per-unit. From 1998 to 2004, the price of gasoline was between $1 and $2 USD per U.S. gallon. After 2004, the price increased until the average gas price reached a high of $4.11 per U.S. gallon in mid-2008, then dropped approximately $2.60 per U.S. gallon as of September 2009. Recently, the U.S. has experienced an upswing in gas prices of 13.51% from Jan 31st to March 7, 2011.
Most consumer goods have posted prices that exclude tax; taxes are added based on a percentage of the purchase price. Because of primitive gasoline pumps in the 1920s, United States gasoline prices are posted with taxes included and the taxes are set on cents per gallon. Taxes are added by federal, state and local governments. (These taxes collect the cost of maintaining the roads.) As of 2009, the federal tax is 18.4¢ per gallon for gasoline and 24.4¢ per gallon for diesel (excluding red diesel). Among states, the highest gasoline tax rates, as of January 2011, are California (47.7¢/gal), New York (47.3¢/gal), Hawaii (45.8¢/gal), and Connecticut (45.2¢/gal). The federal government and many states fail to increase their gasoline taxes over time with inflation. However, some states also charge a sales tax as a percentage and vary in amount depending on the cost of the gasoline.
About 9% of all gasoline sold in the US in May 2009 was premium grade, according to the Energy Information Administration. Some car manufacturers "recommend" premium gasoline but have computer-controlled engines that adjust the timing to avoid knocking. So, most cars can burn regular grade gasoline but at a slightly reduced performance. The Associated Press said premium gas–which is a higher octane and costs several cents a gallon more than regular unleaded–should be used only if the manufacturer says it is “required”.
To reduce the use of imported oil, the US uses Gasohol (10% ethanol) and E85 (85% ethanol) ethanol/gasoline mixtures.
Brazil has the largest national fuel ethanol industry. Gasoline sold in Brazil contains at least 25% anhydrous ethanol. Hydrous ethanol (about 95% ethanol and 5% water) can be used as fuel in more than 90% of new cars sold in the country. Brazilian ethanol is produced from sugar cane and noted for high carbon sequestration.

</doc>
<doc id="19521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19521" title="Tropical cyclone">
Tropical cyclone

A tropical cyclone is a circular air movement over the warm ocean waters in the warm part of Earth near the equator. Most tropical cyclones are storms with strong winds and heavy rains. While some tropical cyclones stay out in the sea, others pass over land. This can be dangerous because the winds and floods can break things and drown people. 
Tropical cyclones form when warm, moist ocean air rises. They begin as a group of storm winds when the water gets as hot as 80 °F (27 °C) or hotter. The Coriolis effect causes the winds to rotate. These storms usually move westward in the tropics, and later move north or south into the temperate zone.
The term "tropical cyclone" is a general term and includes regionally specific terms such as "hurricane" and "typhoon". A tropical cyclone that forms in the Atlantic is called a hurricane. The same is true of those that form in the eastern, central and northern Pacific. In the western Pacific a tropical cyclone is called a typhoon. In the Indian Ocean they are called "cyclones". The name for a tropical cyclone depends on its location.
Tropical cyclones are usually given names because it helps in forecasting, tracking, and reporting. They are named once they have steady winds of 62 km/h. Committees of the World Meteorological Organization pick names. Once named, a cyclone is usually not renamed.
For several hundred years hurricanes were named after saints. In 1887, Australian meteorologist Clement Wragge began giving women's names to tropical cyclones. He drew on history and mythology for names. When he used men's names, they were usually of politicians he hated. By World War II these names were based on the phonetic alphabet (Able, Baker, Charlie). In 1953 the United States stopped using phonetic names and began using female names for these storms. This ended in 1978 when both male and female names were used for Pacific storms. In 1979 the practice was extended to hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic.
In the past these storms sank many ships. Better weather forecasting in the 20th century let most ships avoid them. When tropical cyclones reach land, they may break things. Sometimes they kill people and destroy cities. In the last 200 years, about 1.5 million people have been killed by tropical cyclones.
Wind can cause up to 83% of the total damages of a storm. Broken wreckage from destroyed objects can become deadly flying pieces. Flooding can also occur when rainfalls and/or storm surges pour water onto land.
There is a possibility of indirect deaths "after" a tropical cyclone makes landfall. For example, New Orleans, Louisiana suffered from poor sanitary conditions after Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005.
Tropical cyclones are classified into different categories depending on their strength and location. The National Hurricane Center which observes hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean and Eastern and Central Pacific Ocean classify them into the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
Tropical cylones in other places such as the Western Pacific Ocean or the Southern Hemisphere are classified on similar scales. For example; if a tropical storm in the western Pacific reaches hurricane-strength winds, it is then officially recognized as a "typhoon".
A tropical depression is an organized group of clouds and thunderstorms with a clear surface circulation and maximum sustained winds of less than 17 m/s (33 kt, 38 mph, or 62 km/h). It has no eye and does not usually have the spiral shape of more powerful storms. Only the Philippines are known to name tropical depressions.
A tropical storm is an organized system of strong thunderstorms with a very clear surface circulation and maximum sustained winds between 17 and 32 m/s (34–63 kt, 39–73 mph, or 62–117 km/h). At this point, the cyclonic shape starts to form, although an eye does not usually appear in tropical storms. Most tropical cyclone agencies beginning naming cyclonic storms at this point, except for the Philippines which have their own way of naming cyclones.
A hurricane or typhoon is a cyclonic weather system with sustained winds of at least 33 m/s (64 kt, 74 mph, or 118 km/h). A tropical cyclone of this strength usually develop an eye, an area of calm conditions at the center of circulation. The eye is often seen from space as a small, round, cloud-free spot. Surrounding the eye is the eyewall, an area in which the strongest thunderstorms and winds spin around the storm's center. The fastest sustained windspeed founded in tropical cyclones is thought to be 85 m/s (165 kt, 190 mph, 305 km/h).

</doc>
<doc id="19524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19524" title="Aymara language">
Aymara language

The Aymara language is spoken by the Aymara tribe in Bolivia, Peru, and north of Chile. In Chile only a third declared linguistic competence. The language is inflected. It is one of the few Native American languages which has over one million speakers.

</doc>
<doc id="19525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19525" title="Michelle Bachelet">
Michelle Bachelet

Verónica Michelle Bachelet Jeria AC (; born 29 September 1951) is a Chilean politician. She became President of Chile on 11 March 2014. She was also President of Chile from 11 March 2006 to 11 March 2010. She was the first woman president of Chile.
In 2010, Bachelet became the president of UN Women. In 2013, she resigned from that position.
Bachelet is a socialist.

</doc>
<doc id="19528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19528" title="Zhou">
Zhou

Zhou is a Chinese name that refers to:
It is also the Chinese word for "U. S. state".
Zhou (周) is also a common Chinese surname. Famous people with that name include:

</doc>
<doc id="19530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19530" title="Politician">
Politician

A politician (from Classical Greek πόλις, "polis") is a person active in party politics, or a person holding or seeking office in government. In democratic countries, politicians seek elective positions within a government through elections or, at times, temporary appointment to replace politicians who have died, resigned or have been otherwise removed from office. In non-democratic countries, they employ other means of reaching power through appointment, bribery, revolutions and intrigues. Some politicians are experienced in the art or science of government. Politicians propose, support and create laws or policies that govern the land and, by extension, its people. The word politician is sometimes replaced with the euphemism statesman. Basically, a "politician" can be anyone who seeks to achieve political power in any bureaucratic institution.
Politicians are known for their use of language, as in speeches or campaign advertisements. They are especially known for using common themes that allow them to develop their political positions in terms familiar to the voters. Politicians become experts at using the media. Politicians in the 19th century made heavy use of newspapers, magazines, and pamphlets, as well as posters. In the 20th century, they branched into radio and television, making television commercials the single most expensive part of an election campaign. In the 21st century, they have become increasingly involved with social media based on the Internet and smartphones.

</doc>
<doc id="19531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19531" title="Sendero Luminoso">
Sendero Luminoso

Sendero Luminoso, (English:Shining Path, official complete name: Partido Comunista del Peru-Sendero Luminoso, PCP-SL), is a Peruvian Maoist group which is based on communist ideology. Their leader, Abimael Guzmán, and several important members of the group were captured on September 12, 1992. Since then, the group has not been as powerful.

</doc>
<doc id="19532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19532" title="Fat">
Fat

Fat is one of the three main types of nutrient. Fats are found in many foods.They are made of macromolecules called lipids. Lipids are based on long-chain fatty acids. Some of these are essential because the body cannot make them. 
There are three different types of fats : Unsaturated fats, Saturated fats, and Trans fats.
Unsaturated fats, are liquid at room temperature. They are considered useful fats because they can improve blood cholesterol levels, and ease heart rhythms. Most vegetable oils are liquid at room temperature have unsaturated fats. There are two kinds of unsaturated fats, Mono-unsaturated fats, and polyunsaturated fats. We can commonly find them in avocados, nuts, peanuts, seeds, fish, and canola oil.
Saturated fats will likely have no benefits; they are mainly found in animal foods, but a few plant foods are also high in saturated fats. Too much saturated fat in your diet can lead to heart disease and other health problems, such as gaining weight or increasing the risk of heart disease or stroke. People should not eat too much saturated fats. You should limit saturated fat to less than 10% of your daily calories. It can usually be found in dairy products, meat products, grain-based desserts.
Trans fatty acids, which are more commonly called trans fats. There are two types of trans fats, naturally-occurring and artificial trans fats. Naturally-occurring trans fats can be found in the guts of some animals and foods which are made from these animals. Artificial trans fats are made in an industrial process that adds hydrogen to liquid vegetable oils to make them more solid. Trans fats are bad for cholesterol levels than saturated fats. They are most likely found in frying. baked goods, and processed foods.
Fats are used to absorb or get nutrients, like Vitamins for humans. It is used as a source of backup energy in cases when carbohydrates are not available, or people can not use it at that time. People need more than 20 to 35% of daily calories from fat. Also, fats play a role in helping people's body maintain or keep the core (center) temperature. However, they are also harmful, in other words, they have bad effects on human's bodies.
Bad fats, in other words, trans fats, have no known health benefits and will damage someone's heart and take them away from healthy. People might get diseases like blindness, which means they can not see anything because of having too much cholesterol and other fats. Most of the foods that contain these types of fats are solid at room temperature, such as butter and animal meat. On the other hand, good fats are naturally found in foods and will not damaged human's organs. The example foods of good fats are avocados, eggs, and nuts.
Unsaturated fatty acids are very important. They are called by where their double bond is placed. Omega-3 fatty acids (ω-3) and omega-6 fatty acids (ω-6) are essential: you need them both. They help build longer molecules which do cell signaling in different tissues. There are over 20 different signaling paths that control a wide array of bodily functions.
Why do you need to eat fat to burn fat?
Medium-chain triglycerides are good for burning fat. They are easily absorbed, digested, and reused as energy. Eating milk fat, palm oil, and coconut oil will burn burn fat because they contain medium-chain triglycerides. Also, medium-chain triglycerides can increase metabolism. Increasing metabolism can burn more fat. Athletes use medium-chain triglycerides to increase their endurance during exercise. And nobody cooks medium-chain triglycerides oil. Healthy people are mix with water, juice, ice cream, or pudding.Fat is important for people, even though some people think fat is bad. Fat can help us keep our weight, and fat doesn’t necessarily make us fat. The fat that we eat can prove energy for us, and protects our organs, also keeping our cell membranes safe. But not all the fatty foods are good for you. Like pizza, french fries, and hamburgers. The fat from those will let you became fat, and let your health become terrible.
Fats also provide long-term energy for humans and, in cold climates, a layer of insulation to keep the body warm. They help the body use the vitamins found in foods. Fats are also good for the skin and hair. Olive oil is an especially healthy fat. Many types of fish also contain healthy fat, for example salmon, sardines, herring, and tuna. But if too much fat collects in the body, a person can become too heavy. The energy given by fats is used by moving around or exercising. Some vegetables like celery or carrots contribute much less to the bodies fat supply. Though being very important for the human body, it can also harmful in large amounts.
First, you can get some diseases if you have too many fats in your body. One of these diseases is called the Fatty Liver. It is a condition which can be resolved by eating different food. Fatty liver is when someone has too many fats in his liver. But it can also associate by alcohol or metabolic syndrome. Fatty liver can be fixed, it can be improved by doing more games or adjust food and drinks. This is one of the hidden danger of fats.
Another hidden danger of fats is that it can cause some heart diseases. One example is Heart Failure.Heart Failure is an illness that does not have enough heart pumps blood. It lowers the leading of blood flow. The blood stuck in veins and lungs.There are some ways to avoid these issues. The first way is to work out. Exercise is always good for your body. The second way is to eat healthily. You need to keep nutritious balance in your body. Also, enough protein can help you remove the fats in your body.

</doc>
<doc id="19533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19533" title="Saturated fat">
Saturated fat

Saturated fat is a kind of fat. It contains no double bonds. It contains carbon atoms that are fully saturated with hydrogen. Saturated fats are usually solid at room temperature. They have no double bonds, while unsaturated fat has one or two.
Is saturated fat a risk factor for heart disease (CVD)? This is a question with many controversial views. Although most in the mainstream heart-health, government, and medical communities hold that saturated fat is a risk factor for CVD, some recent studies have produced conflicting results.
Saturated fats are a kind of fat. For a long time scientists have believed that eating saturated fat was a leading cause for heart attack, cancer, or other diseases. However, new research have shown that there is no connection between how much saturated fat you eat and heart diseases. This is still a controversial question.
Things like butter, nuts, chocolate and meat have lots of saturated fat.
Saturated means that it holds all the hydrogen atoms that it can, meaning that all of the carbon (c) atoms have two hydrogen (H) atoms attached to it. 

</doc>
<doc id="19534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19534" title="Mackinac Bridge">
Mackinac Bridge

The Mackinac Bridge is a 5-mile-long (8-km.-long) bridge that carries a four-lane interstate highway, Interstate 75. It was built by the U.S. state of Michigan and connects that state's Upper Peninsula and Lower Peninsula together.
The Mackinac Bridge passes over a strait of water that connects two Great Lakes, Lake Michigan (to the west of the bridge) and Lake Huron (to the east). 
At the center of the Mackinac Bridge is a long suspension span, in which the bridge, made of steel and concrete, hangs from wires that run down from two huge, curved cables.
The government agency that runs the Mackinac Bridge charges motor vehicles a toll to drive over it. In 2007, the toll was $2.50 for a passenger car.
The government hangs colored lights from the big cable, and turns them on at night so that the bridge can be seen from many miles away.
The Mackinac Bridge was opened in 1957, and this started a major economic boom in northern Michigan as tourists drove from all over North America to see the bridge, the Great Lakes, and the northern forests.

</doc>
<doc id="19535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19535" title="Unsaturated fat">
Unsaturated fat

Unsaturated fat is a kind of fat. It is different from saturated fat in that it is liquid at room temperature while saturated fat is more solid. Its molecules contains double bonds whose carbon atoms that are not fully saturated with hydrogen. There are two types: 
In cellular metabolism, an unsaturated fat molecule contains somewhat less energy (that is fewer calories) than the saturated fat molecule of the same length.
Examples of unsaturated fats are palmitoleic acid, oleic acid, myristoleic acid, linoleic acid, and arachidonic acid. Foods containing unsaturated fats include avocado, nuts, and vegetable oils such as canola and olive oils. Meat products contain both saturated and unsaturated fats.
Unsaturated fat is better for people than saturated fat. Some testing has shown that it can raise a person's HDL ("good" cholesterol) levels.
Unsaturated fat is also very important for a healthy brain.
People think that unsaturated fats are 'healthier' than saturated fats. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommended that the amount of unsaturated fat consumed should not exceed 30% of one's daily caloric intake (or 67 grams given a 2000 Calorie diet). The new dietary guidelines have eliminated this recommendation at the request of the meat and dairy industries.
Most foods contain both unsaturated and saturated fats. Food packages promote only one or the other, depending on which is the largest share in the product. So, various unsaturated fat vegetable oils, such as olive oils, also contain saturated fat.

</doc>
<doc id="19539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19539" title="Cold fusion">
Cold fusion

Cold fusion is nuclear fusion at room temperature and normal pressure. Nuclear fusion is the process by which many nuclei, the center of an atom, containing protons and neutrons, are forced to join together to form a heavier nucleus (singular of nuclei) and during that process, energy is released. Some scientists hope that this may be Earth's future energy source, but most scientists do not agree.
For nuclear fusion to take place, a large amount of energy is needed. With this energy, the atoms are pushed together, which are repelled by the electrostatic force (a force between protons which are particles in the nucleus of the atom and have a positive electrical charge). But once this force is overcome and the nuclei are pushed close enough together, another much more powerful force will take over: the strong nuclear force. It only operates at short distances, so when the nuclei are close enough, they attract each other because of the strong nuclear force which is stronger than the electrostatic force. It is hoped that the energy released by cold fusion is much greater than the energy used to push the atoms together. 
In 1989 two scientists, Stanley Pons and Martin Fleischmann, published a paper in "Nature", an important science journal, claiming to have created cold fusion. This was a very important story at the time. Other scientists were not able to repeat their experiments. This is why cold fusion is not generally accepted by scientists at the moment. Several dozen scientists are still working on cold fusion research. They publish in peer-reviewed journals and other academic sources regularly, but most are not convinced.

</doc>
<doc id="19540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19540" title="Cusco">
Cusco

Cusco is a city in southeastern Peru, near the Huatanay Valley (Sacred Valley) in the Andes mountain range. It is the capital of Cusco Region. The city has a population of about 300 000, triple the population it contained just 20 years ago. Alternate spellings include Qusqu (in old Quechua), Cusco, (after the Spanish arrived), and current Quechua. Cusco is the preferred way to spell it in Spanish.
Cusco was the capital of Tahuantinsuyu (or Inca Empire). The city was planned to be shaped like a puma. The city had two areas: the "hurin" and "hanan", which were further divided to each be part of two of the four provinces of the Inca Empire: Chinchasuyu (NW), Antisuyu (NE), Cuntisuyu (SW), and Collasuyu (SE). 
A road led from each of these quarters to the corresponding quarter of the empire. Each local leader was required to build a house in the city and live part of the year in Cusco, but only in the quarter of Cusco that corresponded to the quarter of the empire he had territory in. 
According to Inca legend, the city was built by Sapa Inca Pachacuti, the man who transformed the Kingdom of Cusco from a sleepy city-state into the vast empire of Tahuantinsuyu. But archaeological evidence points to a slower, more organic growth of the city beginning before Pachacutieven though he did initiate growth in the city after defeating the Chancas as a monument to Incan glory. There was however a city plan, and two rivers were changed to flow around the city.
The first Spanish soldiers arrived in the city on November 15, 1533. Spanish "conquistador", or "conqueror", Francisco Pizarro, however, officially refounded Cusco on March 23, 1534, naming it the "Very noble and great city of Cusco". The many buildings constructed after the Spanish conquest have Spanish influence with a mix of Inca architecture. The Spanish made a new city on the foundations of the old Inca city, replacing Incan temples with churches and palaces for the Spanish. In the colony, the city of Cusco was very rich, thanks to the agriculture, cattle raising, mining and trade with Spain. Many churches and convents were built, and even a Cathedral, and the Universidad Nacional San Antonio Abad del Cusco.
The major earthquake that hit Cusco in 1950 badly destroyed the Dominican Priory and Church of Santo Domingo, which were built on top of the impressive Koricancha (Temple of the Sun). The city's Inca architecture, however, survived the earthquake. Many of the old Inca walls were thought to have been lost after the earthquake, but the granite walls of the Koricancha were exposed, as well as many walls throughout the city. While some wanted to restore the buildings to their colonial splendor, some of Cusco citizens urged city officials to retain the exposed walls. Eventually they won out and now tourists from around the world enjoy looking at these ruins within the living city. The 1950 earthquake was the second time that the Dominican Priory had been destroyed, the first being in 1650 when another major earthquake struck Cusco.
Other nearby Inca sites are: Pachacuti's presumed winter home Machu Picchu, which can be reached by a lightly maintained Inca trail; the "fortress" at Ollantaytambo; and the "fortress" of Sacsayhuaman which is approximately two kilometers from Cusco. Other less visited ruins include Inca Wasi, the highest of all Inca sites at 3,980 m (13,134 feet), and Old Vilcabamba the capital of the Inca after the Spanish took over Cusco.
The surrounding area, in the Huatanay Valley, is strong in agriculture. There is corn, barley, quinoa, tea, and coffee grown.
Cusco's main stadium, Estadio Garcilaso de la Vega, attracted many tourists during South America's continental soccer championship, the Copa América 2004, which was held in Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19541" title="Cusco Region">
Cusco Region

Cusco is a region in Peru. The capital is the city of Cusco.
Cusco Region is home to Machu Picchu, one of the most famous landmarks in South America.

</doc>
<doc id="19542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19542" title="Midnight Cowboy">
Midnight Cowboy

Midnight Cowboy is a 1969 American drama movie, released by United Artists. John Schlesinger directed it, and Waldo Salt wrote the screenplay based on the James Leo Herlihy novel. It stars Dustin Hoffman (in his first starring role after "The Graduate"), along with Jon Voight in the title role.
It is the only X-rated movie to win an Academy Award for Best Picture. Schlesinger won a Best Director Award; both Hoffman and Voight were nominated for Best Actor.
In 1971, it was given the "R" rating by the MPAA. Apart from this, nothing was changed in the movie.
Joe Buck (played by Voight, in his first major acting role) was an orphan who was raised by his grandmother in Texas. She died after Joe grew up, when he was drafted into the US Army. He had a girlfriend, who was called Crazy Annie, but she had been sent to a psychiatric hospital. With both women gone from his life, Joe had no family or close friends. After he left the Army, he worked as a dishwasher, and dreamed of moving to New York City, to become a "hustler" – a male prostitute. He saved money to make the trip, bought some stylish cowboy clothes, and traveled to New York City on a bus.
Joe knew little about the realities of both New York and his chosen job, and he soon found himself homeless, with no money and only rare chances to earn any. When he first met "Ratso" Rizzo (Hoffman's character), Ratso (tricked) Joe out of $20, but when they met again, Ratso offered to share his "place", which turned out to be a room in a condemned building. The two became partners. Ratso shared what he knew about New York with Joe, and became his "manager" (pimp), and Joe shared any money he got with Ratso. Ratso was sick, probably with tuberculosis, and as time went on he depended more and more on Joe. Ratso cheered both of them up with stories about his plans to move to Florida before winter came.
The weather turned cold as the year ended, but Joe and Ratso got a break, when they were invited to a big party. Along with eating (and stashing for later) as much of the food there as they could, Joe met a who finally treated him the way he'd always wanted to be, in New York City, and paid him likewise. Ratso, however, became even more ill, and was unable to walk or stand for long. He refused to go to a doctor or a hospital, and insisted Joe take him to Florida.
Joe tried to set up another encounter with the socialite, to raise travel money, but failed. He donated blood to get grocery money, and by chance met a traveling . The salesman invited Joe to spend the night with him, but later felt guilty, and sent Joe home with a St. Christopher medal. When Joe found Ratso sicker than ever, he returned to beat and rob the salesman, for the money they needed.
Joe and Ratso left for Florida on a bus, headed to Miami. Joe bought new clothes for them both, and threw away his cowboy clothing. "I ain't no kinda hustler," Joe decided, and he planned to find a regular job once they reached Florida. Joe and Ratso talked and joked during most of the trip, but Ratso died before they arrived. Joe realized how much he had cared about Ratso as a person, and that what he'd missed most in his life was someone to be close with. Joe had lost his grandmother and his sweetheart. Now he'd lost his best friend, and Joe was scared to go on alone.
The movie won Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Adapted Screenplay. Both Hoffman and Voight were nominated for Best Actor awards and Sylvia Miles was nominated for Best Supporting Actress. Miles had one of the shortest performances ever nominated (clocking in under four minutes of screen-time).
The film won six BAFTA Awards. It was also entered into the 19th Berlin International Film Festival.
John Barry, who supervised the music and composed the score for the movie, won a Grammy for Best Instrumental Theme. Fred Neil's song "Everybody's Talkin'" also won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance, for Harry Nilsson.
In 1994, the movie was picked by the Library of Congress to keep in the United States National Film Registry.

</doc>
<doc id="19543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19543" title="Age of consent">
Age of consent

The age of consent is the age at which a person can legally consent to have sexual intercourse. This is also the minimum age of the other person legally permitted to engage in sexual activity. Having sex with a person who is younger than the age of consent (but who agrees to have sex) is called statutory rape. The person below the minimum age is regarded as a victim, and their sex partner as the offender. Different countries have different laws regarding the age of consent. Some are as low as 12 or as high as 21. Most countries have ages set between 13 and 16. But worldwide, the average age of consent is 16 years of age.
Most jurisdictions allow minors above a certain age to marry with parental and/or government permission. In jurisdictions which allow this, a minor who is married is an exception to the law. For example, in Wisconsin the age of consent for sex is 18. Marriage is an exception. Marriage usually prevents a party to the marriage from being charged under sexual assault laws, as long as both husband and wife are at least 16 years, although not if one of the parties is younger than this age and one is older. This varies from country to country. In some places kissing is considered a sexual activity. Other places only count sexual intercourse. Most countries have laws that say what the legal age of consent is. This is usually a fixed age. For example, in France the age of consent is set at 15, which means having sex with anyone below that age by anyone over that age is illegal. However, some jurisdictions use sexual maturity instead of age to determine capacity for consent. For example, when Russia was a part of the Soviet Union, its age of consent was having reached "sexual maturity".
There are exceptions to age of sexual consent laws. Although most jurisdictions have a fixed age set as the law, where no one over that age can be with anyone under that age, some states have close in age exceptions. For example, in Indiana the age of consent for sex is 16, but there is a close in age exception that makes it legal for a person younger than 18 but above 16 to still be able to have sex with a 14 year old without being guilty of a crime. Indiana also allows a defense against the law in court if the victim is married or was married in the past, and allows pregnant females who are 15 or older to marry the man who impregnated. This is with parental and government approval as an alternative to prosecuting the defendant.
The age of consent varies between states and countries. The laws in different areas range as low as 13 yrs old to 20 yrs. The laws are almost always affected by a nation's culture. Nations with Islamic law tend to have lower ages. European countries generally range from 14yrs to 16yrs. In the United States, the age varies from 16 to 18. In many areas, there is a "close-in-age" part of the laws. This allows for people under of consent but above a certain age to have sex with people as long as there older partner is either less than a certain age or the difference in age is a certain amount of years. The age of consent may also vary if one of the people is in a position of authority over the other. For example, if the older person was a teacher of the "victim", the age may be higher than for other people, an example of this is Indiana where the age where a person can have sex is 16 except if the older partner is a teacher at the "victim's" high school, in which case the age limit is 18. If the two people are married, the age is often lower. Age of consent can also be affected by the type of sex or the sex of the person. Many areas have different ages for homosexual sex as well as anal sex. There are areas which also have different ages depending on if the person is male or female.
For example, in Victoria, Australia, the age of consent is 16. The law says that the minimum age is 12 and that there is a two-year "close-in-age" exception. It is against the law to have sex (or any other sexual act) with a person under the age of 12, even if they said yes. If one of the people having sex is between the age of 12 and 15, the other can not be more than two years older than that person. A 13yr old can have sex with a 15 yr old. A 15 yr old (still a minor) can have sex with a 17 yr old (an adult). It is against the law for a person to have sex with someone aged 16 or 17 if they are responsible for their care.
If a person is caught having sex, or any other sexual act, with someone who is below the age of consent, the person may be punished as a sex offender. The violator may be sent to prison, or jail, or fined. In Wisconsin having sex with a person beneath 16, a felony (serious crime), carries prison time,but having sex with a minor who is 16 or over but under 18, which is a misdemeanor (a non-serious crime), carries jail time and a fine. An example of punishing age of consent violations occurred in 2011, an American swimming teacher was sent to prison for 16 months for having sex with a 15-year-old student. The law usually applies to both males and females having sex with a minor.

</doc>
<doc id="19545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19545" title="Andy Richter">
Andy Richter

Andy Richter (born October 28, 1966) is an American comedian and actor. He is best known for his former role as Conan O'Brien's sidekick on "Late Night with Conan O'Brien". Richter was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He is the second of four children. He was raised in Yorkville, Illinois. While attending Columbia College, Chicago, he played in several Chicago comedy groups, including the Annoyance Theatre, before getting on Late Night.
Richter left Late Night in 2000. He said he wanted to focus on an acting career. His first major work was FOX's critically acclaimed but little watched "Andy Richter Controls the Universe". It was cancelled after two short runs. His next FOX sitcom, "Quintuplets", was not liked by the critics. It lasted only one season. He is married to actress Sarah Thyre. They have two children.
In addition to his television work, Richter has appeared in movies such as "Seeing Other People", Olsen Twins' "New York Minute", "Madagascar", and "Cabin Boy".

</doc>
<doc id="19546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19546" title="Jennifer Granholm">
Jennifer Granholm

Jennifer Granholm (b. February 5, 1959) is a Canadian born American politician. She was the governor of the state of Michigan from 2003 to 2011. Granholm was born in Canada and raised in California. She ran for governor of Michigan in 2002, even though she had lived in the state for less than 15 years.

</doc>
<doc id="19547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19547" title="Sandra Day O'Connor">
Sandra Day O'Connor

Sandra Day O'Connor (born March 26, 1930) is a retired justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She was the first woman to serve as justice on the Supreme Court, as well as the first from Arizona.
One of her ideas on the Supreme Court was the endorsement test. It was a way to check if the government was supporting religion.
O'Connor was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1981 by President Ronald Reagan. Reagan said while running for president that he wanted a woman to be on the supreme court and promised to nominate a woman for the job the first chance he got. One of her biggest supporters was Arizona Senator Barry Goldwater, who helped make sure that all 100 Senators voted to confirm her. While on the Supreme Court, she was involved in several major supreme court decisions including: Bush v. Gore, which had to do with a disputed election; Planned Parenthood v. Casey which involved a woman's right to privacy, and Lawrence v. Texas, a case about whether burning a US flag was free speech. She retired from the court in 2006. Sam Alito was chosen to replace her. On August 12, 2009, she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor of the United States, by President Barack Obama.
She has a school named after her in North Phoenix, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="19548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19548" title="John Paul Stevens">
John Paul Stevens

John Paul Stevens (born April 20, 1920) is a retired United States Supreme Court justice. He was nominated by President Gerald Ford in 1975. He voted with minority in Bush v. Gore case (2000). He also voted with majority in Furman v. Georgia case (1976), but later bacame a death penalty opponent. In 2010, he announced his retirement in the Supreme Court.

</doc>
<doc id="19549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19549" title="Antonin Scalia">
Antonin Scalia

Antonin Gregory Scalia (March 11, 1936 – February 13, 2016) was a Conservative jurist on the Supreme Court of the United States. He was an Associate Justice. Scalia was put on the Court in 1986 by Ronald Reagan and was the longest-serving justice on the Court. Before becoming a justice, he was on the District of Columbia Court of Appeals and was a law professor. He was a Roman Catholic born to Italian American parents. He was the first Italian-American on the Court. 
Scalia was born in Trenton, New Jersey, but grew up in Queens, New York. Scalia went to Georgetown University, the University of Fribourg, Switzerland, and Harvard Law School. He began his career in Cleveland, Ohio and traveled to Chicago, Illinois during his early life. 
Scalia was noted for holding a conservative approach to the law. He also believed in originalism. This means he wanted the Constitution interpreted exactly as its framers had wanted it. Scalia and fellow judge Clarence Thomas often had the same viewpoints. He was friends with justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Scalia died in his sleep on February 13, 2016 at a ranch in Shafter, Texas at the age of 79. His death left a split in the court with 4 conservatives and 4 liberals. President Barack Obama said he would choose Scalia's successor in "due time". President Obama, former Governor of Texas Rick Perry, Governor of Ohio John Kasich, former Presidents George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, Senators Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, and Bernie Sanders, and Vice president Joe Biden all reacted to his death. 
On March 16, 2016, President Obama nominated Merrick Garland to replace Scalia. After Republicans refused to give Garland a confirmation hearing, his nomination expired in January 2017. On January 31, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to replace Scalia.

</doc>
<doc id="19550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19550" title="Anthony Kennedy">
Anthony Kennedy

Anthony Kennedy is on the Supreme Court of the United States. He was made a judge on that court in 1988.
Kennedy was born in Sacramento, California, on July 23, 1936. He went to Harvard University, Stanford University, and the London School of Economics. He was a private lawyer, a professor, and in 1975, he was appointed by Gerald Ford to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. In 1988, Ronald Reagan nominated him for the Supreme Court. He became a member of the court on February 18, 1988. He has two sons and a daughter.

</doc>
<doc id="19551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19551" title="David Souter">
David Souter

David Souter is a member of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born September 17, 1939. Souter has been an Associate Justice since 1990. He replaced William J. Brennan.
Even though Souter had never traveled outside the United States during his years with the Supreme Court, he still had gained quite a recognition abroad. In 1995, a series of articles, based on his written opinions and entitled "Souter Court", was published by a Moscow legal journal "The Russian Justice." Those were followed by a book, written in Russian and bearing Souter's name in the title. Justice of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation Yury Danilov, reviewing the 2nd edition of the book in a Moscow English-language daily, made the following remark on Souter's position in Bush v. Gore case: "In a most critical and delicate situation, David Souter had maintained the independence of his position and in this respect had become a symbol of the independence of the judiciary."
In May 2009, Souter wrote President Barack Obama and said he planned to retire later in the same year.

</doc>
<doc id="19552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19552" title="Clarence Thomas">
Clarence Thomas

Clarence Thomas is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born on June 23, 1948. Thomas has been a Justice since 1991. He is the only African-American currently on the court. He is also the second African American to ever serve on the court. The only other African American was Thurgood Marshall. 
Clarence Thomas was born in Pin Point, Georgia. His father left his family when he was only two years old. He did not meet his son Clarence again until Clarence was nine years old. This left his mother, Leola Anderson, to take care of the family. 
Clarence and his brother were sent to live with his mother's parents in Savannah, Georgia. His grandfather wanted him to become a priest. Thomas was sent to St. John Vianney Minor Seminary, an all-white boarding school near Savannah. In 1968 he transferred to the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts. He gave up all ideas of becoming a priest after the death of Martin Luther King Jr.. Thomas then obtained a law degree at Yale University. 
After Yale he returned to Missouri and worked for State Attorney General, John Danforth. in 1977 Danforth was elected to the U.S. Senate. Thomas became a corporate lawyer for the Monsanto Company. Two years later he became Danforth's legislative aide in Washington, D.C.. President Ronald Reagan offered Thomas a job as the assistant secretary for civil rights in the U.S. Department of Education. He then became the chairman of the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Thomas was appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 1990 by President George H. W. Bush. In 1991, Thurgood Marshall retired from the Supreme Court. Bush nominated Thomas to replace him.
He had a hard time getting approved so that he could become a Supreme Court justice. This was partly because one of his former employees, Anita Hill, claimed that he sexually harassed her. Thomas said that was not true. The Senate confirmed his nomination by a vote of 52-48. All Republicans, except Bob Packwood of Oregon and James Jeffords of Vermont, voted for confirmation. 

</doc>
<doc id="19553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553" title="Stephen Breyer">
Stephen Breyer

Stephen Breyer is a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He was born August 15, 1938. Breyer has been an Associate Justice since 1994. Breyer generally favors a liberal interpretation of the law; he is pro-choice and pro-civil liberties. Breyer had the second-longest tenure as the most junior justice on the bench. Breyer is also the only justice to appear on a quiz show ("Wait Wait Don't Tell Me"). Before being a judge, Breyer was a professor at Harvard Law School and a judge on the First Circuit Court of Appeals. Breyer is an Eagle Scout.

</doc>
<doc id="19554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19554" title="Ruth Bader Ginsburg">
Ruth Bader Ginsburg

Ruth Joan Bader Ginsburg (born March 15, 1933) is an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Ginsburg was appointed by President Bill Clinton and took the oath of office on August 10, 1993. She is the second female justice (after Sandra Day O'Connor) and the first Jewish female justice.
Ginsburg had surgery for colon cancer in 1999 and for pancreatic cancer in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="19555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19555" title="John G. Roberts">
John G. Roberts

John Glover Roberts, Jr. (born January 27, 1955) is the seventeenth and current Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Appointed by President George W. Bush, Roberts is generally considered a member of the more conservative wing of the court.
Before joining the Supreme Court on September 29, 2005, Roberts was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for two years.
Roberts has been portrayed as a consistent advocate for conservative principles by analysts such as Jeffrey Toobin.

</doc>
<doc id="19556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19556" title="Tacna Region">
Tacna Region

Tacna Region is the most southern region in Peru. The capital city is Tacna.

</doc>
<doc id="19557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19557" title="Tacna">
Tacna

Tacna is a city in Peru. It is the capital of Tacna Region.

</doc>
<doc id="19559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19559" title="Franz Kafka">
Franz Kafka

Franz Kafka (born Prague July 3, 1883 – died near Vienna June 3, 1924) was a Czech-born, German-speaking writer. His best known works are "The Metamorphosis" and the novels "The Trial" and "The Castle". Not much of his work was published during his lifetime. He asked his friend to make sure that all his writings which were not published, including his three novels, would be destroyed when he died. Fortunately his friend did not destroy them, and they were published after Kafka’s death.
Kafka’s writings are about the frightening world around him which he often did not understand. A typical situation in his books might be someone who has gone somewhere to take a message, but he does not know what the message is or who it is for. The people he meets confuse him even more. Sometimes, when people find themselves in strange, nightmarish situations like this, they are described as Kafkaesque situations.
Kafka was born into a middle-class Jewish family. His father was a merchant. He was very strict and unkind to his family. Kafka’s stories often have fathers who are very brutal and unkind. Kafka spent most of his life living at home. He never married or became free from his parents. He felt that he had no will of his own. He wrote about people who are dominated by some mysterious power. He found it difficult to make friends, he hated his job and everyone around him. He often felt that he belonged nowhere. He was German-speaking but lived in a Czech-speaking country (Bohemia, part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, now part of the Czech Republic). He was different because he was Jewish, but he did not become part of the Jewish community either. He said that he was a socialist and an atheist, but although he was interested in politics he never took part in political activity. He supported Czechs who wanted to rule their own country and let their culture flourish, but he was not one of them because he himself was brought up in a German culture.
It was while he was studying law at the University of Prague that he met Max Brod who was to become his friend. Brod was a writer himself, and he later wrote a biography of Kafka.
After his studies Kafka took a job in an insurance company. He was good at his job although he hated it. He found the office work boring, and he spent his nights writing. In 1917 he got tuberculosis. Gradually he became more and more ill. He had to retire in 1922. He spent some time in hospital. He died in Klosterneuburg in 1924.
Several publishers realized how good Kafka’s writings were and asked him whether they could publish his works. Kafka reluctantly let a few things be published. One of these works was a story called " Metamorphosis" (German: "Die Verwandlung"). It is about a man called Gregor Samsa (the name “Samsa” means "loner" or "lonely"). Gregor wakes up one morning to find he has changed into a giant cockroach. His family becomes ashamed of him and they stop looking after him so that he slowly dies. Stories like these are a kind of fable. They are full of strange and frightening situations.
His novel "Amerika" (published in 1927) is about a man who arrives in America looking for a father figure to protect him. He is quiet and timid and other people use him. In the end he dies. 
In "The Trial" (German: "Der Prozess", published in 1925), a man who works in a bank is arrested and taken to court. He is never told what he has done wrong. Even the priest tells him that if he asks what he has done wrong it proves that he is guilty. Finally he is executed.
In "The Castle" (German: "Das Schloss") a man who is simply called “K” (the first letter of “Kafka”) arrives at a castle saying that he has been given a job there, but the people there say they have not been told about his appointment. Kafka never finished the novel, but Max Brod says that Kafka was going to end it with K receiving permission to stay at the castle just as he was dying. The German word “Schloss” has two meanings: “castle” and “lock”. K becomes locked (trapped) in this strange situation.
At the time of his death only a few people understood Kafka’s writings. Max Brod saved all the unpublished books which would otherwise have been lost. Kafka is now thought of as one of the most important writers of the 20th century. His works had a lot of influence on German literature.

</doc>
<doc id="19560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19560" title="Eva Braun">
Eva Braun

Eva Anna Paula Braun (6 February 1912 – 30 April 1945) was the longtime girlfriend of Adolf Hitler. She met him in Munich when she was 17 years old. They married the day before they committed suicide (killed themselves), Braun killed herself by using cyanide. Hitler used cyanide and at the same time shot himself. When she was married, she was known as Eva Anna Paula Hitler. She was born in Munich, Germany and died in Berlin, Germany at the age of 33.

</doc>
<doc id="19566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19566" title="Computer recycling">
Computer recycling

Computer recycling means taking things from old computers and using them in new computer things. The phrase is also used to mean that computers need to be thrown away in a special way, as they often have things that are bad for the environment or dangerous inside them that can cause problems if they are thrown away like usual waste (garbage).
Sometimes people are worried that the information inside a computer will be stolen when the computer is thrown away. For example, if you have a product design on an old computer, somebody might copy your design. Big companies have a lot of computers, with a lot of private information on them. They will often pay other companies to remove all the information from a computer before it is thrown away. This usually involves physically destroying the drive. It is possible to non-destructively erase the data on a hard drive by overwriting the entire drive with random numbers. With this method, only the data is destroyed, not the drive itself. This allows the drive to be reused.

</doc>
<doc id="19568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19568" title="Nagasaki">
Nagasaki

Nagasaki is in the southwest of Kyushu.
It has been recognized as a core city since 1997.
During the Edo period, Nagasaki was the only port in which trade with other countries was permitted because of the national isolation policy ("sakoku").
In the 1870's, Nagasaki became the capital city of the prefecture which evolved from the former province.
Nagasaki was the second of two Japanese cities which were destroyed with an atomic bomb near the end of the Second World War.

</doc>
<doc id="19570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570" title="Ayyavazhi">
Ayyavazhi

Ayyavazhi (, "path of the father"), is a religion with one god that started in South India in the middle of the 19th century. The 'zhi' () in the word, 'Ayyavazhi', is a retroflex, ri.
Ayyavazhi is not a part of Hinduism, but since it was not considered a separate religion it was considered as a branch of Hinduism only officially. It has evolved into a different religion, spreading in Tamil Nadu's southern districts of Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, and Tuticorin. As one of the fastest growing religions of southern India, its growth had been noted in the Christian missionary reports of the mid-19th century.
The ideas and philosophy of the religion are based on the teachings of Ayya Vaikundar and the religious texts Akilattirattu Ammanai and Arul Nool.
Ayyavazhi began to be seen firstly by the large number of people gathering to worship Ayya Vaikundar at Swamithoppe, which is at that time "poovandanthoppe". The majority of the followers of Ayyavazhi were from the poor group of the society. For the Christian missionaries it gives a big challenge in their converting mission from its beginning. Although the majority of these followers were from the Chanar cast, apart from Ayyavazhi sources, some outer sources too says that a large number of people from other castes also followed this religion. 
By the middle of nineteenth century, Ayyavazhi had come to be recognised as a separate religion, grown well in the region of South Travancore and South Tirunelveli. The growth in its number of followers had increased speedly from 1840s. After the death of Vaikundar, the religion was spread on the basis of his teachings and the religious books "Akilattirattu Ammanai" and "Arul Nool". The five Citars, who were the deciples of Ayya Vaikundar, and their descendants travelled to several parts of the country and carried the mission of Ayyavazhi. At that time the Payyan dynasty started ruling of Swamithoppe pathi, while other Pathis came under the control of the followers of Ayya. Hundreds of Nizhal Thangals (places of worship) were built across the country. Currently Bala Prajapathi Adikalar, one of descendant of Payyan dynasty is said to be as the leader of Ayyavazhi. He has laid foundations for a large number of Nizhal Thangals all over South India. And now seeing the growth of the religion the day of birth of Vaikundar, Ayya Vaikunda Avataram was announced as a holiday by the government for the districts of Tirunelveli and Tuticorin from this year while the district of Kanyakumari was announced as a holiday earlier.
The holy books of Ayyavazhi are the Akilattirattu Ammanai and the Arul Nool, and they are the source of the religion's mythology. The holy book states that the "Akilattirattu Ammanai" was written down by Hari Gopalan Citar by hearing the contents of Akilam told by Narayana to his wife Lakshmi. There was no definite history about the beginning of Arul Nool; but the followers believe that it was written by Citars and by those who get possessed by divine power. It contains the prayers, hymns and ways for the worship in Ayyavazhi, religious practices, prophesies and also many rules. 
To the Ayyavazhi devotees, there are five holy places, called Pathis, with "Panchappathis" as the most important. The temple of Swamithoppepathi is the head of the Ayyavazhi religion. The Vakaippathi, where 700 families were sent to Thuvayal Thavasu by Vaikundar was approved as a Pathi in Akilam although this place has no direct association with the activities of Vaikundar. There is a big disagreement within the followers of Ayyavazhi as to the holiness of some of the places of worship. The Avatharappathi in Thiruchendur was accepted by the book "Akilam" as a Pathi, but as some of the followers believe that the place at which the present temple is located is not the exact place where Ayya Vaikundar incarnated from the sea, they disagree with the other devotees. There are also some followers which strongly quarrel Thiruchendur as a Pathi though they accept it as a secondary holy site. The list of Pathis announced by the headquarters of Ayyavazhi does not add Avatharappathi.

</doc>
<doc id="19572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19572" title="Akilattirattu Ammanai">
Akilattirattu Ammanai

Akilathirattu Ammanai (; from "akilam" (world) + "thirattu" (collection) + "ammanai" (ballad)), also called Thiru Edu (venerable book), is the main religious book of the Southern Indian Ayyavazhi, officially a branch of Hinduism. The title is shortened as Akilam. This is the largest Ammanai work.
According to the book, Hari Gopalan Citar wrote this book on the twenty-seventh day of the Tamil month of Karthikai (November/December) in the year 1016 ME (1841 CE). The author says that God woke him up during his sleep and ordered him to take the first words from what he said. Akilathirattu was recorded on palm leaves. Then in 1939 it was given printed form.
According to the author, the book is the story of God coming in this age, the Kali Yukam or Iron Age, to rule the world by transforming it into that of Dharma Yukam. This story of faith has woven together the historical facts about Ayya Vaikundar and his activities, with mixing of episodes from the Hindu Puranas (mythologies) and Itihasas (epics). It is presented as if Vishnu is telling the whole story to his consort Lakshmi.
Though the Citar Hari Gopalan wrote the book Akilam, as per him, he did not know any thing about the contents of the book. He woke up in the morning as usual and he did not know what he had written the day before.
As soon as Ayya Vaikundar attained Vaikundam, the tied-up palm leaf text, which was until then not opened. It was there the regulations of Ayyavazhi contains. As per the instructions found there in Akilam, Ayyavazhi was preached by the Citars far and wide.

</doc>
<doc id="19573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19573" title="Category:Ayyavazhi">
Category:Ayyavazhi

See more about this topic in Ayyavazhi

</doc>
<doc id="19574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574" title="Ayya Vaikundar">
Ayya Vaikundar

Ayya Vaikundar () is a Manu (father, sovereign) avatar (the incarnation of a deity) of the Lord Narayana according to Akilattirattu Ammanai the holy book of the Ayyavazhi religion, officially a Tamil Hindu branch. 
The physical human body of Ayya Vaikundar was born with the name Muthukutty. However, Muthukutty is referred to as Sampooranathevan, a deva (a deity), in the religious book Akilam. Ayya Vikundar is a combination of the spirit of Narayana, the soul of the Supreme God, Ekam (God beyond conciouseness) and the body of an ordinary human being (Muthukutty).
The Ekam as soul incarnated with the spirit of Narayana in the body of Muthukutty.

</doc>
<doc id="19577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19577" title="Pathi">
Pathi

The worship centers of Ayyavazhi are called Pathis. The activities of Vaikundar is historically jointed with this Pathis. There are five Pathis:

</doc>
<doc id="19578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19578" title="Planck mass">
Planck mass

The Planck mass is a small unit of mass used in physics. It is derived using an equation involving Planck's constant, the speed of light in a vacuum, and the gravitational constant. It is approximately 21.76 μg.

</doc>
<doc id="19579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19579" title="Human sexuality">
Human sexuality

Human sexuality is the ability of people to have sexual experiences and feelings.

</doc>
<doc id="19582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19582" title="War and Peace">
War and Peace

War and Peace () is a famous novel written by Leo Tolstoy, a Russian writer. It is about four families of noblemen in Russia during the wars with Napoleon, and how they deal with the war and with one another.
Tolstoy described "War and Peace" as "not a novel, even less is it a poem, and still less an historical chronicle."
The book describes Russian life in the 19th century, and also tells about Tolstoy's own idea about free will, history, and how events unfold.
There are 580 characters in "War and Peace", but these are the main characters:

</doc>
<doc id="19583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19583" title="Category:Russia">
Category:Russia


</doc>
<doc id="19587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19587" title="Bay City, Michigan">
Bay City, Michigan

The American city of Bay City is a small city in the state of Michigan, United States. In the 2000 census it had more than 35,000 people living in it.
Although small, Bay City is one of the largest port cities on Lake Huron, one of the North American Great Lakes. It is part of a triangle of small cities in Central Michigan. The other two cities are Saginaw, Michigan, and Midland, Michigan.
Bay City was the birthplace in 1958 of Madonna Ciccone, a well-known American singer. The Scottish Pop group Bay City Rollers are said to have gotten their name from the city as well.

</doc>
<doc id="19591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19591" title="Zirconium">
Zirconium

Zirconium is a chemical elemental metal. It is a greyish-white in color. It is atomic number 40 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Zr. And it is in the family of four (4).

</doc>
<doc id="19592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19592" title="Yttrium">
Yttrium

Yttrium is a chemical elemental metal. It is atomic number 39 on the periodic table. It is silvery-white and tends to form crystals. In chunk form, it is unreactive in air, but powdered yttrium may burn at 400 degrees Celsius. It has several uses, which include lasers, TV's, and metallurgy.

</doc>
<doc id="19594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19594" title="Windows 98">
Windows 98

Windows 98 is an operating system for computers. Released on June 25 1998 by Microsoft, it is an updated version of Windows 95.
Windows 98 was seen by many as an upgrade to Windows 95, rather than a rebuilt version of Windows. The biggest changes were:
Because Microsoft made Internet Explorer such an important part of Windows 98, the company was taken to court by the United States Government. This was because they felt it was unfair to other companies who made web browsers.
It is not supported anymore, but many people still use it on older computers that will not run Windows XP, Windows Vista, or Windows 7.
Before the release of Windows 98, there was a press demonstration at Comdex in April 1998. Microsoft CEO Bill Gates was highlighting the operating system's ease of use and enhanced support for Plug and Play (PnP). When presentation assistant Chris Capossela plugged a scanner in and attempted to install it, Windows 98 displayed a Blue Screen of Death. Gates remarked after applause and cheering from the audience, "That must be why we're not shipping Windows 98 yet." Video footage of this event became a popular Internet phenomenon.
Windows 98 Second Edition (SE) (codenamed "99") was released in 1999. This was an official upgrade to Windows 98 which allowed people to use more types of computer hardware, like monitors and printers, and also let more than one machine on a network use the same Internet connection.

</doc>
<doc id="19595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19595" title="Waste">
Waste

Waste is unwanted materials and objects that people have thrown away. It is often also called trash, garbage, rubbish, or junk. It can be solid, liquid, or gas, or it can be waste heat. There are many different kinds of waste. Garbage is the waste we produce daily in our homes, including old or unwanted food, chemical substances, paper, broken furniture, used containers, and other things.
When waste is a liquid or gas, it can be called an emission. This is usually pollution (hurts plants and animals).
Waste can also be something abstract (something that you cannot touch), for example "a waste of time" or "wasted opportunities". When people use the words "waste" or "wasted" in this way, they are saying (directly or indirectly) that something has been used badly (using too much of it or using it incorrectly).
In modern homes and businesses, garbage is normally placed in waste containers of some sort. It is then moved to the street, where it can be collected and taken to a place designed to hold, destroy or recycle garbage. Some waste materials, such as paper, wood, glass, metals, and plastic containers, can be recycled (reused). Materials that can not be recycled are either burned ("incinerated") or heaped into landfills.
Plant matter, such as fruit and vegetable scraps, is biodegradable. It can usually be heaped into a compost, where it will decompose relatively quickly. This kind of waste is often called "wet" or "green" waste.
Very often, waste is not collected in containers. It may instead be thrown onto the ground or dumped somewhere. This is called "littering".

</doc>
<doc id="19596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19596" title="1096">
1096


</doc>
<doc id="19597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19597" title="1098">
1098

Year 1098 (MXCVIII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19598" title="Republic of the Congo">
Republic of the Congo

The Republic of the Congo is a country in Africa. Its capital city is Brazzaville. The country was a former colony of France; it became independent on 15 August 1960.
The north of the country has very large areas of rainforest, but in the south are many farms which grow bananas, peanuts and other crops.
Congo is in the central-western part of sub-Saharan Africa. It is along the Equator. To the south and east of it is the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is also bordered by Gabon to the west, Cameroon and the Central African Republic to the north, and Cabinda (Angola) to the southwest. It has a short Atlantic coast.
The capital, Brazzaville, is on the Congo River. It is directly across from Kinshasa, the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The Republic of the Congo is divided into 12 Departments. Departments are divided into communes and/or districts.
The districts are:

</doc>
<doc id="19599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19599" title="Gabon">
Gabon

The Gabonese Republic or Gabon is a country in Africa. It is located on the equator. It has borders with the countries of Equatorial Guinea, Cameroon, and Republic of the Congo. Its capital is Libreville which is also the largest city in the country. Gabon has an area of almost . 1.5 million people live in Gabon. 
Gabon was a colony of France. It became a new country on August 17, 1960. Since 1960, country has had only 3 presidents. At first it had one-party rule. In the early 1990s country switched to many party government.
Gabon is one of the richest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has 4th highest HDI and third highest GDP per capita (PPP) in the region. Gabon's income is not evenly given to people and many people are poor.
The first people who lived in the country were pygmies. Later, Bantu people took over the area. Bad weather did not let people form local culture, as it had happened in the south (Congo) or north (Benin).
In the 15th century first Europeans came to the area. Starting from the 16th century coast was used for slave trade.
In the 19th century French explorer Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza organized the first journey to the Gabon-Congo area in 1875. After 10 years, France took over the whole country. At that time a small amount of Bantu people lived in the country.
In 1910 Gabon was one of the French colonies which formed the French Equatorial Africa (together with Congo, Central African Republic and Chad). French Equatorial Africa lasted to 1959. On August 17, 1960 it became a new country.
Since 1960, Gabon has only had 3 presidents. In 1961 Léon M'ba became the first president. In 1967 after his death Omar Bongo became the president and ruled the country to 2009. In 2009, Omar Bongo died and his son Ali Bongo Ondimba took over as president.
Gabon is on the Atlantic coast of central Africa. It is on the equator. Gabon generally has an equatorial climate. Rainforests cover 85% of the country. There are three distinct regions: the coastal plains (ranging between 20 to 300 km from the ocean's shore), the mountains (the Cristal Mountains to the northeast of Libreville, the Chaillu Massif in the centre, culminating at 1575 m with Mont Iboundji), and the savanna in the east. The coastal plains form a large section of the World Wildlife Fund's Atlantic Equatorial coastal forests ecoregion and contain patches of Central African mangroves especially on the Muni River estuary on the border with Equatorial Guinea.
Gabon's largest river is the Ogooué which is 1200 km long. Gabon has three karst areas where there are hundreds of caves in the dolomite and limestone rocks. Some of the caves include Grotte du Lastoursville, Grotte du Lebamba, Grotte du Bongolo, and Grotte du Kessipougou. Many caves have not been explored yet. A National Geographic Expedition visited the caves in the summer of 2008 to document them (Expedition Website).
The first Gabonese president was Leon Mba. His successor was Omar Bongo, from 1967 until his death in 2009. Under his governance Gabon had just one political party between 1968 and 1990. It was called PDG. 
Gabon is divided into nine provinces. The provinces are divided into 37 departments.
The provinces are:
Gabon has nine states. The soil of Gabon is rich in the metals uranium, manganese, and petrolium. Therefore, these three elements, such as metal exploited in Port-Gentil, Iranium in Munana, and the manganese in Franceville.
Gabon has a wide culture. Before colonialism, Gabon's people believed their ancestral spirit as religion, like bwiti, mvett, djobi.
After colonialism, others religions such as Christianity and Islam came to be added to the first animists believers.

</doc>
<doc id="19613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19613" title="Tamil Nadu">
Tamil Nadu

Tamil Nadu () is one of the states in the south of India. The capital of this state is Chennai. Tamil is the language spoken in Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore, Tiruchirapalli, Salem, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Thanjavur and Thoothukudi are other large cities of Tamil Nadu. It is surrounded by the Bay of Bengal on the east and the Indian Ocean on the south. And also the Arabian Sea in the west for a smaller area. Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are its neighbouring states. The Tamilians are very proud of their language and heritage. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone.
The eastern and western tips of the state are defined by the Point Calimere and Mudumalai wildlife sanctuaries while the southernmost tip is Kanniya Kumari, also called Cape Comorin, the Indian peninsula's southernmost point. With an area of 130,058 km and over 62 million people, Tamil Nadu is the 11th largest state in India. The major river is Kaveri which meets the needs of agriculture and drinking water to a large extent. The other important rivers are south Pennar, Palar, Vaigai, Tamira bharani, Manimuthar, Noyyal and Bhavani.
Chennai,
Coimbatore,
Salem,
Sivaganga,
Cuddalore,
Thanjavur,
Dharmapuri,
Nilgiris,
Dindigul,
Theni,
Erode,
Ariyalur,
Pudukkottai,
Tiruppur,
Thoothukudi,
Kanchipuram,
Tiruchirappalli,
Kanyakumari,
Tirunelveli,
Karur,
Tiruvallur,
Krishnagiri,
Tiruvannamalai,
Madurai,
Thiruvarur,
Nagapattinam,
Vellore,
Namakkal,
Viluppuram,
Perambalur,
Virudhunagar,
Ramanathapuram.
Area 50,180 mi² or 129,966 (km²), it is bigger than North Korea but smaller than Greece
Population 62405679
By Sex
Male 31400909
Female 31004770
By Area
Rural 34921681
Urban 27483998
Density (per km) 480
Literates 40524545

</doc>
<doc id="19616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19616" title="Duck">
Duck

Ducks are birds in the family "Anatidae". Ducks are closely related to swans and geese, which are in the same family. The main difference is that ducks have shorter necks, and are smaller. 
Other swimming and diving birds, like grebes and loons, are sometimes called ducks, but they are not. A baby duck is called a "duckling", and a male duck is called a "drake". Most ducks are aquatic birds. They can be found in both saltwater and fresh water. Once their heads are submerged looking for food they can open a valve in their anus and take in air through the rectum to aid longer under water
Ducks lay eggs once a year and are omnivorous, eating aquatic plants and tiny animals. Dabbling ducks feed on the surface of water or on land, or as deep as they can reach by up-ending without completely submerging. Along the edge of the beak there is a comb-like structure called a "pecten". This strains the water squirting from the side of the beak and traps any food. The pecten is also used to preen feathers. Diving ducks dive deep to get their food.
Many ducks are migratory. This means that they spend the summer months in a different place than the winter months. Ducks show a cosmopolitan distribution, they can be found all over the world, except for Antarctica. Some duck species live on the South Georgia and Auckland Islands, which are subantarctic. Many species have established themselves on remote islands, such as Kerguelen or Hawaii. 
Some ducks are bred and kept by humans. They are not wild ducks. They are kept to provide food (meat and eggs), or to use their feathers for pillows and other items in the house. Especially in Asia, many people like to eat duck.
Ducks are sometimes kept as pets. They are often kept by groups of people on public ponds for their beauty and calming nature. People commonly feed ducks in ponds stale bread, thinking that the ducks will like to have something to eat. However bread is not healthy for ducks and can kill them.

</doc>
<doc id="19620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620" title="North by Northwest">
North by Northwest

North by Northwest is a 1959 movie thriller from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Alfred Hitchcock directed it, and Cary Grant starred in it.
Like other Hitchcock movies, the music for "North by Northwest" was composed by Bernard Herrmann.
The famous opening sequence was created by Saul Bass.

</doc>
<doc id="19625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19625" title="Nightwish">
Nightwish

Nightwish is a symphonic metal band from Finland. They formed in July 1996 and played acoustic mood music. The band's keyboardist and composer Tuomas Holopainen had the idea of forming a band. He asked Tarja Turunen to sing and Emppu Vuorinen to play guitar.
At the beginning of 1997, the band started playing stronger music. Jukka Nevalainen joined the band to play the drums. Vuorinen used an electric guitar instead of an acoustic guitar. In May 1997, Nightwish signed a contract (binding agreement) with Spinefarm Records and they released their first album 'Angels Fall First'.
In 1998, Sami Vänskä joined the band to play bass guitar. The same year Nightwish released 'Oceanborn', which was quite different to
'Angels Fall First'.
In May 2000 they released 'Wishmaster', which was similar to 'Oceanborn'. They also entered the contest to be Finland's representatives for the Eurovision Song Contest, with the song 'Sleepwalker'. They won the phone vote but the judges disagreed so they came second.
The other band members asked Tarja to leave the group in 2005 after their "End of an Era" tour. Tuomas wrote an open letter to her, stating the reasons why she had to leave. He then put the letter on the official website. In 2007, Swedish singer Anette Olzon became the new singer, and Nightwish released a single, 'Amaranth'. A few months later, they released the album 'Dark Passion Play'.

</doc>
<doc id="19632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19632" title="Sierra Leone">
Sierra Leone

Sierra Leone is a country in West Africa. Its capital is Freetown. The official language is English.
The country was first made as a place where freed slaves could live. From 1991 until 2000, there was a civil war in Sierra Leone between rebels and the government. The war is now over. Sierra Leone is known for its blood diamonds. These were mined and sold during the civil war. This was in order to buy the weapons for the civil war.
There are 71,740 square kilometres of land in Sierra; In terms of land area it is similar in size to Ireland.
Sierra Leone has relied on mining, especially diamonds, for its economic base. The country is among the largest producers of titanium and bauxite, and a major producer of gold. The country has one of the world's largest deposits of rutile. Sierra Leone is also home to the third largest natural harbour in the world. Shipping from all over the globe goes to Freetown's famous Queen Elizabeth II Quay. Despite this natural wealth, 70% of its people live in poverty.
Sierra Leone is a mostly Muslim country.
The country has 2,090 known species of higher plants, 147 mammals, 626 birds, 67 reptiles, 35 amphibians, and 99 fish species.
The country is bordered by Guinea to the north and northeast, Liberia to the south and southeast, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.
Mount Bintumani reaches . It is the highest point in the country.
The climate is tropical, with two seasons. The rainy season is from May to November, and the dry season is from December to May.
The largest cities in Sierra Leone are:
Education in Sierra Leone is legally required for all children for six years. A shortage of schools and teachers has made this impossible. Two thirds of the adult population of the country are not able to read. The Sierra Leone Civil War caused the destruction of 1,270 primary schools. In 2001, 67% of all school-age children were out of school. This has been better since the end of the civil war.
The country has three universities: Fourah Bay College, University of Makeni and Njala University. Teacher training colleges and religious seminaries are found in many parts of the country.
The Republic of Sierra Leone has four regions the Northern Province, Southern Province, the Eastern Province and the Western Area. The first three provinces are divided into 12 districts. The districts are further divided into 149 chiefdoms.
Rice is the staple food of Sierra Leone. It is eaten at nearly every meal daily. The rice is prepared in many ways, and topped with different sauces made from some of Sierra Leone's favorite toppings. These include potato leaves, cassava leaves, crain crain, okra soup, fried fish and groundnut stew.
Along the street of towns and cities one can find snacks such as fresh mangoes, oranges, pineapple, fried plantains, ginger beer, fried potato, fried cassava with pepper sauce; small bags of popcorn or peanuts, bread, roasted corn, or skewers of grilled meat or shrimp.
Poyo is a popular Sierra Leonean drink. It is a sweet, lightly fermented palm wine. Poyo bars are areas of lively informal talk about politics, football, entertainment and other issues.
Football is by far the most popular sport in Sierra Leone. Children, youth and adult are often seen playing street football across Sierra Leone. 
The Sierra Leone national football team, popularly known as the Leone Stars, represents the country in international competitions. It has never qualified for the FIFA World Cup. They were in the 1994 and 1996 African Cup of Nations. Many of the national team footballers are celebrities across Sierra Leone. They are often well known by most of the country's general population. Some well known Sierra Leonean international footballers include Mohamed Kallon, Mohamed Bangura, Rodney Strasser, Ibrahim Teteh Bangura, Alhassan Bangura, Sheriff Suma, Mohamed Kamara, Umaru Bangura and Kei Kamara.

</doc>
<doc id="19633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19633" title="Door">
Door

A door is a hard, flat object a person can open and close so that person can go into a room or other place. It is found in houses and other buildings. Doors are also found in cars and cages.
The reasons for a door are:
A revolving door is a group of doors that turn in a circle as a person pushes one. The person can go through, but wind and rain cannot get in.
A blind door is a fake door that is really part of the wall. People use them to make a room look nice.
An up-and-over door is often used in garages. Instead of hinges, it rolls up on rails so that it stays above the opening.
A fire door is a door that does not let fire go through. They are usually made of heavy steel.
A doggie door is a small door for dogs or other small pets. They are usually on the bottom of people-sized doors. 

</doc>
<doc id="19634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19634" title="1540s">
1540s


</doc>
<doc id="19638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19638" title="Boeing 737">
Boeing 737

The Boeing 737 is a jet airliner. It is built by Boeing. It has two engines, which means that it is a twinjet. It also only has two rows of seats, which means it is a narrow-body airliner. At first, Boeing was making it to be a shorter, cheaper airliner than its 707 and 727. However, the 737 has become a family of nine different models. The number of passengers it can carry goes from 85 to 215. The 737 is the only narrow-body airliner that Boeing is making. The only types of 737 that Boeing is still making are the -700, -800 and -900ER. A version of the 737 with new engines and a new design, the 737 MAX, will come into service in 2017.
Boeing began designing the 737 in 1964. The very first 737-100 flew in 1967. It was first used by an airline in February 1968. The 737-200 started being used in April 1968. The -200 was basically just a longer version of the 737-100. In the 1980s Boeing made the -300, -400, and -500 models. Boeing called these models the Boeing 737 Classic series. The 737 Classics could carry more passengers, and they had new engines: CFM56 turbofans. The 737 Classic planes also had some improvements made to the wings. In the 1990s, Boeing brought out the 737 Next Generation. The 737 Next Generation planes also had redesigned wings, a better cockpit and a new cabin. The 737 Next Generation is made up of the -600, -700, -800, and -900ER models. These models go from to in length.
The Boeing 737 is the best-selling jet airliner in history. Boeing has never stopped making 737s since 1967. 7,283 aircraft have been delivered, and the Boeing 737 still has 2,759 orders that have not been delivered yet (). Boeing 737s are built at the Boeing Renton Factory in Renton, Washington. The 737's main rival is the Airbus A320 family. On average, 1,250 Boeing 737s are in the air at any time and two land or leave somewhere every five seconds.
Boeing was looking at designs for aircraft which flew short distances. Boeing wanted to make another aircraft to replace the 727 on short flights. It began designing the 737 on May 11, 1964. Boeing did a lot of research and found that airlines wanted an airliner which could hold 50 to 60 passengers. This airliner would also be able to fly routes long. Lufthansa was the first airline to order a Boeing 737 on February 19, 1965. They ordered 21 aircraft, worth $67 million (1965, $190.28 million in 2008). After Boeing spoke to Lufthansa in winter 1964, they made the 737 bigger so that it could hold 100 passengers.
On April 5, 1965, Boeing announced that United Airlines had ordered 40 737s. United wanted a plane which was a bit bigger than the 737-100. Boeing made a different type of 737 for United, which was longer. This other plane was called the 737-200. Boeing changed the name of the original 737 to the 737-100.
The first 737s were made near Boeing Field (now officially called King County International Airport) because the factory in Renton was too busy building the 707 and 727. After 271 aircraft were made at Boeing Field, Boeing moved the 737s to Renton. This was in 1970.
The first Boeing 737-100 prototype was ready in 1966. It made its first flight on April 9, 1967. On December 15, 1967 the Federal Aviation Administration said that the -100 was allowed to fly with passengers. They gave it the Type Certificate A16WE. Lufthansa got its first 737 on December 28, 1967. On February 10, 1968, Lufthansa became the first non-American airline to fly a new Boeing aircraft. It was the only large airline which bought the 737-100. Only 30 -100s were ever made.
The 737-200 first flew on August 8, 1967. The FAA allowed it to fly with passengers on December 21, 1967. The first flight it made for United Airlines was on April 28, 1968. It flew from Chicago to Grand Rapids, Michigan. Airlines liked the 737-200 much more than the 737-100.
A "thrust reverser" is a part of the engine of a plane. It changes the flow of air through the engine so that it ends up trying to push the plane backwards instead of forwards. The first thrust reversers on the 737 were not very good. They were said to lift the aircraft off the runway when they were used. This meant that the wheels were not being pushed down onto the ground very much, which made the brakes less useful. In 1968, Boeing improved the thrust reverser. This improvement was put onto all aircraft after March 1969. Aircraft which were made before the improvement could have it installed. Boeing also improved the flaps. This improvement allowed the flaps to be used more during takeoffs and landing. All these changes meant that the 737 could hold more cargo and fly further. In May 1971, after the 135th aircraft was built, all of these improvements, as well as better engines and more fuel, were put into the 737-200. This gave it 15% more payload and range than the first 737-200s. This type of 737-200 became known as the 737-200 Advanced.
In 1970, Boeing only got 37 orders for 737s. Since Boeing were running out of money, they thought about stopping making 737s and selling the design to Japanese companies. Boeing cancelled the Boeing Supersonic Transport and started making less Boeing 747s. By doing this, Boeing kept enough money to keep the 737 project going.
In 1988, Boeing stopped making 737-200s. 1,114 aircraft were made and the last one was delivered to Xiamen Airlines on August 8, 1988.
In 1979, Boeing started working on a large improvement for the 737. Boeing wanted to allow the aircraft to hold more passengers and travel further. It also wanted to make improvements to make the aircraft more modern. However, it also wanted to keep it similar to the older 737s. In 1980, information on this new type of 737 (called the 737-300) was given at the Farnborough Airshow.
The CFM56-3B-1 engine was chosen to be the engine for this new 737 type. This engine burned much less fuel and was much less noisy. However, it was also difficult to fit these engines to the aircraft. This was because the 737's wings were not very high above the ground, and the CFM56 had a bigger diameter than the original engines. Boeing and CFM solved the problem by putting the engine slightly ahead of the wing, instead of right under it. They also moved some parts of the engine, which would normally go on the bottom, to the sides. This made the engine look a bit like a hamster pouch, because the engine is not shaped like a circle.
The plane could now carry 149 passengers, because the fuselage of the plane was made bigger. Many changes were made to the wings. The tip of the wing was made longer by . The wingspan was also made bigger. The flaps on the wings were changed. The flight deck (cockpit) was improved with electronic displays. However, airlines could choose not to have these in their planes. The main cabin (where the passengers sit) was also made better. It looked similar to the cabin of a Boeing 757. The prototype of the 737-300 first flew on 24 February 1984. Its pilot was Jim McRoberts.
In June 1986, Boeing said that it was working on the 737-400. The 737-400 made the fuselage even bigger (by ). This change meant that the -400 could carry 170 passengers. The 737-400's first flight was on February 19, 1988. The first airline to use it was Piedmont Airlines.
Boeing made a 737-500 because its customers wanted one. It was a replacement of the 737-200. The -500 is longer than the 737-200. Up to 132 passengers can travel on the 737-500. Cockpits with electronic displays could be installed on the -500, but airlines could choose the use the older cockpit if they wanted.
The 737-500 was first ordered by Southwest Airlines in 1987. Southwest Airlines ordered 20 aircraft. The 737-500 flew for the first time on June 30, 1989. On February 28, 1990, Southwest Airlines got their first delivery.
After the Boeing 737 Next Generation planes were brought into service, Boeing named the 737-300/-400/-500s the 737 Classic series.
In 1991, Boeing started working on an updated group of 737s. They did this so they could have a plane to rival the Airbus A320. Boeing said that the 737 Next Generation (NG) program had begun on November 17, 1993. The -600, -700, -800, and -900 models are all part of the 737 Next Generation program. The 737 was changed so much by the 737NG program that it is almost like a new aircraft. However, some important parts of the plane were kept similar to the older 737s.
The wing was changed again. Many different changes were made. An example of one is a bigger wingspan (made bigger by ). Since the wings were made bigger, 30% more fuel could fit in the plane. CFM56-7B engines were used, which were newer, quieter and burned less fuel. The improvements to the wing, engine and fuel mean that the 737NG can travel 900 nautical miles further. This means it can travel over in total, which means that the 737NG can travel between different continents. Winglets can be added to most 737NG models. The flight deck was given modern electronics (called avionics). The main cabin was also improved.
The first NG to be built was a 737-700. It was finished on December 8, 1996. This aircraft was 2,843rd 737 built. It first flew on February 9, 1997. The prototype 737-800 was finished on June 30, 1997 and first flew on July 31, 1997. The smallest of the 737NGs, the -600, is the same size as the -500. It was the last NG to be launched (it was launched in December 1997). It first flew on January 22, 1998. The FAA certified it on August 18, 1998. A
Boeing delivered the 5,000th 737 to Southwest Airlines on February 13, 2006. The 6,000th 737 was delivered to Norwegian Air Shuttle in April 2009. The Airbus A320 family has sold more planes than the 737NG over the past ten years. However, this total includes sales for the A321 and A318. The A321 has been the rival of Boeing's 757 and the A318 has been the rival of the 717. The Next Generation series helped make sure the 737 stayed the bestselling airliner family since it first flew.
Since 2006, Boeing has been thinking about replacing the 737 with a completely new design. This was named the Boeing Y1 by people who worked at Boeing. This re-design would be launched after the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. Boeing did not decide on whether or not to go ahead with this. They said they would decide in 2011.
On July 20, 2011, Boeing said that they were working on a new 737 version, which would have the CFM International LEAP engine. American Airlines said they would order 100 of these aircraft. On August 30, 2011, Boeing said that a new 737 would definitely be launched. It was called the 737 MAX. It would also definitely have CFM International LEAP-1B engines.
The 737's main landing gear (wheels) go into holes at the bottom of the plane. The wheels do not have a door to close over them. The tyres can be seen easily when a 737 is taking off or is flying low-down.
737s do not have fuel dump systems. A fuel dump system is a system which gets rid of any unneeded fuel if the aircraft needs to make an emergency landing while it still has a lot of fuel on board. This is useful because aircraft can only land safely at a certain weight or below. Getting rid of unneeded fuel helps to get to a safe weight for the plane to land. The first 737s were too small to need these systems. Adding a fuel dump system to the bigger 737s would make the plane much heavier. Instead, if the emergency is not very serious, 737s fly around in circles to get rid of fuel. If the emergency is serious, the 737 just needs to land at an unsafe weight. If it has to land at an unsafe weight, the plane needs to be looked at for damage. If there is no damage, the plane can be put back into service.
Engines on the 737 Classic series (300, 400, 500) and Next Generation series (600, 700, 800, 900) are not shaped like a circle like most planes. The 737 Classics had CFM56 turbofan engines. These burned much less fuel and made much less noise than the Pratt & Whitney JT8D engines which were used on the -100 and -200. However, because the 737's wings and fuselage are not very high above the ground, it was impossible to get the engines to fit on the wings. Boeing and CFM fixed this problem by putting the engines slightly ahead of the wings instead of putting them right underneath. They also moved some parts of the engines which would normally go at the bottom to the sides. This is what makes the engines non-circular.
The gearbox of the engine was moved from the bottom of the engine to the side. The gearbox makes the engine look a bit like a triangle. Since the engine is close to the ground, it is possible that they can be damaged by things lying on the ground. The CFM56-7 engine on the 737 Next Generation burns even less fuel than the engines on the 737 Classics. The Boeing 737 MAX aircraft will have CFM International LEAP-1B engines. These engines are supposed to burn 10-12% less fuel than the CFM56-7B engines on the 737 Next Generation family.
The 737's controls are very safe. If the hydraulics or both engines fail, servo tabs will be automatically used. Servo tabs are small hinges which move important parts of an aircraft. The tabs are controlled by the yoke (the thing used to steer the plane). For the 737 Next Generation, a new cockpit with LCD displays was made. These cockpits also have modern avionics (autopilot etc.).
Most 737 cockpits have "eyebrow windows". These are smaller windows which are above the main windows. There are two on each side. Eyebrow windows were used on the Boeing 707. They helped the pilot see better when the plane was turning. However, because autopilot, advanced radar etc. exist, they are no longer needed. They were removed from the 737 cockpit in 2004. However, 737s used by the military still have them installed. If the customer likes, Boeing will install eyebrow windows for them.
Winglets can be fitted to 737s which do not have them already installed. They can also be added when the aircraft is built. The winglets are about tall. They are fitted at the end of the wing and help the engines to burn less fuel because they reduce drag. They also help make less noise on takeoff. Winglets can help a plane burn up to 5% less fuel.
How the cabin looks was changed in each different type of 737 (Classic and Next Generation). The cabin design of the 737 Original was changed 737 Classic using designs from the 757. Designs from the Boeing 777 were used to design the cabin for the Next Generation 737. The newest cabin design is called the Sky Interior. It has curved walls. It also has redesigned windows. The Sky Interior has more headroom and LED mood lighting. Overhead bins which move have been installed. These bins are similar to the bins on a 777 and Boeing 787 Dreamliner. They have more space for luggage than the other designs. The Sky Interior is also designed to make the cabin less noisy by 2–4 dB. The first 737 with the Sky Interior was delivered to Flydubai in 2010. Malaysia Airlines, TUIFly and Continental Airlines have also ordered 737s with the Sky Interior.
The 737 are split into three "generations". These are Original, Classic and Next Generation. The "Original" models are the 737-100, 737-200/-200 Advanced. The "Classic" models are the 737-300, 737-400 and 737-500. The "Next Generation" models are the 737-600, 737-700/-700ER, 737-800, and 737-900/-900ER.
The fourth generation of 737 is called the 737 MAX. It is still being worked on, but when it is finished, it will be made up of the 737-MAX-7, 737-MAX-8 and 737-MAX-9. The MAX-7 will replace the 737-700, the MAX-8 will replace the 737-800 and the MAX-9 will replace the 737-900 and 739-900ER.
The very first 737 model was the 737-100. It was first ordered by Lufthansa in 1965. The -100 was finished on January 17, 1967. It entered service in 1968. The aircraft is the smallest type of 737. Only 30 737-100s were ordered and delivered. No 737-100s are still being used by airlines. The 737-100 prototype is in the Museum of Flight in Seattle.
The 737-200 is a 737-100 with a larger fuselage. It was created because of an order from United Airlines in 1965. The -200 was finished on June 29, 1967. It entered service in 1968. The 737-200 Advanced is an improved version of the -200. Its first user was All Nippon Airways. It began using the -200 Advanced on May 20, 1971. The -200 Advanced has many improvements. For example, more powerful engines and more fuel. The 737-200 Advanced can also fly further than the 737-200. The last delivery of a 737-200 aircraft was in August 1988 to Xiamen Airlines. This was the 1,095th 737-200 built. Many 737-200s are still used by airlines.
After 40 years the last 737-200 aircraft in the United States were retired on March 31, 2008. This happened with the last flights of Aloha Airlines.
The Boeing 737 Classic is the name of the 737-300/-400/-500. However, they were only called the 737 Classics after the 737 Next Generation (737-600/700/800/900) aircraft were made. Until then, the 737 Classics were called the 'new generation' of the 737. The 737 Classics were made from 1984 to 2000. 1,988 aircraft were delivered in that time. As of January 1, 2001, 1,945 are in service.
The 737-300 was brought into service in 1981. It was used by both US Airways and Southwest Airlines. The 737-300 is the first model of the 737 Classic series. The -300 can usually hold 128 passengers. The 737-300 series was made until 1999. The last -300 was delivered to Air New Zealand on 17 December 1999. This was the 1,113th 737-300 made.
The 737-400 brought into service in 1985. It was just a longer version of the 737-300. Piedmont Airlines was the launch customer. They ordered 25 aircraft in 1986. The first 737-400s were brought into service in 1988 with Piedmont. The last -400 was delivered to CSA Czech Airlines. This was the 486th -400 built.
The 737-400F was a 737-400 changed into a cargo plane. The -400F was not delivered by Boeing. They were changed into cargo planes by the airlines that owned them. Alaska Airlines was the first airline to change a -400 to a -400F. It could carry 10 pallets of cargo.
The 737-500 was finished 1987. It was brought into service with Southwest Airlines in 1990. The 737-500 is around the same length of the 737-200. It was a modern, complete replacement of the 737-200. The last 737-500 was delivered to All Nippon Airways on July 26, 1999. This was the 389th built.
In the 1990s, Boeing realised that the Airbus A320 family was a serious threat. Boeing could lose customers because of it. In November 1993, Boeing began the Next Generation program. The Next Generation aircraft would replace the 737 Classics. The 737-600, 737-700 and 737-800 planes were planned.
The 737-600 replaced the 737-500. It was also supposed to replace the McDonnell Douglas DC-9. The 737-600 was finished in 1995. The first aircraft was delivered to Scandinavian Airlines on September 18, 1998. The 737-600 is the only Boeing 737 still being made that cannot be fitted with winglets.
The 737-600's rivals are the Airbus A318, Embraer 195 and Sukhoi Superjet 100. The Bombardier CSeries will also be a rival. 69 -600s have been delivered. There have been no orders that have not been delivered (as of 2010).
The 737-700 was added to the Next Generation planes when Southwest Airlines ordered one in November 1993. The -700 was based on the 737-300. It was brought into service in 1998. It replaced the 737-300. Its main rival is the A319. 126 people can fit into the 737-700 if there are two classes (first class and economy). However, 149 can fit in if the aircraft only has an economy class. Boeing launched the 737-700ER on January 30, 2006. "ER" stands for "extra range". This means that the plane can fly further than a normal 737-700. All Nippon Airways was the launch customer for the -700ER. It has the body of a 737-700, but the wings and landing gear of a 737-800. It can fly for 5,510 nautical miles (10,205 kilometers). 126 passengers can fit onto the plane.
In July 2008, Delta Air Lines got the first -700 that had Messier-Bugatti's carbon brakes.
The 737-800 is a longer version of the 737-700. It replaces the 737-400. The -800 was finished in 1994. It entered service with Hapag-Lloyd Flug (now TUIfly) in 1998. 162 passengers can fit into a 737-800 if it has two classes. Up to 189 can fit into a 737-800 if it only has one class. Its main rival is the A320.
The 737-900 is the longest 737. Alaska Airlines was the launch customer for the 737-900 when it was launched in 1997. It got its first aircraft on May 15, 2001.
The 737-900ER is the newest and biggest Boeing 737. It was made so that it could replace the 757-200. It was also made to be a rival to the Airbus A321. 180 passengers can fly on a 737-900ER with two classes. 215 passengers can fly if the plane only has one class. The -900ER can carry more fuel and has winglets. It can fly for around 3200 nm. The 737-900 is no longer made; Boeing only makes the 737-900ER now.
In 2011, Boeing said that it was working on the 737 MAX program. Boeing will make three types of 737 MAX. These are the MAX-7, MAX-8 and the MAX-9. The MAX-7 will replace the 737-700, the MAX-8 will replace the 737-800 and the MAX-9 will replace the 737-900ER. The 737 MAX will have CFM International LEAP-1B engines. The wheel in the nose of the plane has been made longer. Deliveries are supposed to start in 2017. Southwest Airlines became the launch customer on December 13, 2011. Lion Air and others have made orders for 737 MAX planes.
The 737 is used by more than 500 airlines. 737s fly to 1,200 places in 190 countries. Over 10,000 737s have been ordered by airlines. 7,283 have been delivered. Over 4,500 are still being used by airlines. On average, there are always 1,250 737s flying. On average, a 737 takes off or lands every five seconds. 25% of the world's jet airliners are Boeing 737s.
As of July 2010, 383 Boeing 737-200s are still being used by airlines.
Many countries use the 737 as a military plane. Some countries with 737s are:
Over 7,400 Boeing 737s have been built and delivered. This is correct as of December 31, 2012.
, over 10,400 Boeing 737s have been ordered. 3,020 planes still need to be delivered. This is a list of how many planes have been built for each type of 737.
This information is from Boeing.com.
As of April 2012, the 737 has been in 315 . 159 of these have been "hull loss accidents". A hull loss accident is when the plane is damaged so much it can not be used anymore, or if the plane was completely destroyed. 4,236 people have died because of these crashes. The 737 has also been in 106 hijackings. 324 people have died in hijackings.
This information comes from: Boeing 737 specifications, 737 Airport Planning Report, b737.org.uk site.

</doc>
<doc id="19646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19646" title="Tsar">
Tsar

Tsar is a name for the ruler of Bulgaria in 913–1422, later usage in 1908–1946, the ruler of Serbia in 1346—1371 and the emperor of Russia from 1546 until 1721. Since 1721 the title of Russian emperors was "imperator", but the word "tsar" remained in common use until the Russian Revolution 1917. It is also spelled Tzar, Czar, and Csar, and is the Eastern European word for Caesar.
The last Tsar to Rule Serbia was Tsar Stephen Uroš V.
The last Tsar to Rule Russia was Tsar Nicholas II.
The last Tsar to Rule Bulgaria was Tsar Boris III.

</doc>
<doc id="19647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19647" title="1550s">
1550s


</doc>
<doc id="19649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19649" title="1840">
1840


</doc>
<doc id="19650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650" title="Engelbert Dollfuss">
Engelbert Dollfuss

Engelbert Dollfuss ("German": Dollfuß) (October 4, 1892 – July 25, 1934) was the Chancellor of Austria from 1932 until 1933. He led the country as a dictator from early 1933 until 1934.
He studied law in Vienna, and Economics in Berlin. During World War I, he served in the Alps and briefly became a Prisoner of War in 1918. 
He became Chancellor on May 20, 1932 as head of a right-wing coalition government. He wanted to solve the problems caused by the Depression. He had problems finding majorities in parliament. The measures he liked to take to deal with inflation were not well liked. In March 1933, he suspended the Austrian parliament. He then governed by decree. 
With Adolf Hitler as Chancellor in Germany, Dollfuss feared that the influence of the NSDAP would grow. This would then lead to a growth in popularity for its Austrian counterpart. Because of this, he banned the NSDAP in June 1933. He also banned the SDAPÖ in February 1934. 
In September 1933 he formed an umbrella grouping to support the regime, the "Vaterländische Front" (Fatherland Front) and merged the Christian Social Party with the para-military Heimwehr (Home Guard), a Nationalist paramilitary group. The regime which was put into power by him and remained in power until 1938 is often called "Austrofascism". The form of state he employed was called the "Ständestaat".
On July 25, 1934 eight Austrian Nazis entered the Chancellery building and shot and killed Dollfuss in an attempted coup, as a prelude to Anschluss. The Nazis surrendered and were executed. Kurt Schuschnigg became the new dictator of Austria.

</doc>
<doc id="19653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19653" title="Language isolate">
Language isolate

A language isolate is a language that does not have another language related to it.
Many languages are related to other languages, because they both come from an older language, and are similar to other languages. These groups that are similar are called language families. Most languages belong to a language family, but some are not related to other languages. These languages are called language isolates.
Some language isolates are Basque, and Zuni.

</doc>
<doc id="19654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19654" title="Species">
Species

A species is a kind of organism. It is a basic unit of biological classification, and a formal rank in taxonomy. Originally, the word was used informally in a rather vague way, but now there are at least 26 different ways it is used.
All animals or plants that are the same kind belong to the same species. Wolves ("Canis lupus") are one species. Humans are another species. Broadly, the idea is that (say) cats breed with cats and produce more cats. This is the basis for deciding to have a species named "Felis catus". However, giving a simple definition of 'species' is rather difficult, and many people have tried.
Species is a word for a special kind of living thing, like a crow. Crows and ravens are similar but not the same, so they are together in a bigger group (taxon) called a genus. Then there is a family (like the crow family, which includes crows and ravens as well as jays and magpies), and then an order such as the songbirds, (which has many families in it, such as the crow, thrush and swallow families). The next group is the class; all birds are in the same class. After that is the phylum, such as vertebrates, which is all animals with backbones. Last of all is the kingdom, like the animal kingdom. These are ways to classify living things. 
There is a mnemonic to help people remember the order of the divisions which are listed again below: "King Phillip Came Over For Great Spaghetti".
Take as an example the bird called a Common Loon or Great Northern Diver:
There is a long history of disagreement over whether species are objective things, or whether they are man-made labels. Those who think species are objectively different point to things which 'good' species do. They look similar, and they breed true, that is, mate with their own kind, and have offspring which are obviously in the same species. 
Against this are the many exceptions. There are species which shade gradually into other species, and which interbreed in overlapping populations (see ring species). On the other hand, there are species which look absolutely identical, but which do not breed together (sibling species).
It is quite clear that 'species' as used by palaeontologists and 'species' as used by neontologists cannot be the same. A palaeontologist can only use visible features of a fossil, which are only a small part of the traits of a living species. Not only that, but many species which are virtually identical can only be distinguished by their DNA. This relatively recent discovery of sibling species is very important, and their numbers are growing rapidly. We underestimated the effect of convergent evolution.
The greatest change in the species concept was made by Charles Darwin, for evolution meant that hard-and-fast lines could not be drawn between species. Another shift came when Ernst Mayr proposed the biological species concept, which emphasized the interbreeding population as the heart of the species concept. This meant that, in his view, species were objective, that is not just the subjective opinion of a taxonomist. His explanation of the process of speciation was geographical isolation between populations which had once been interbreeding.

</doc>
<doc id="19655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19655" title="Ancestor">
Ancestor

An ancestor is a person from whom one is descended. Usually it refers to a remote person, rather than the immediate parents or grandparents. A very similar word is forebear. A female ancestor may be called an ancestress. The line of people from whom a person's descends is referred to as their ancestry. 
A second meaning relates to evolution. There, it is used of an animal or plant from which others have evolved. In a similar way, it can be used for an early prototype or forerunner of a later device. 
In law an ancestor can mean the person from whom an estate is lawfully obtained. No blood relationship is necessarily implied. More commonly, however, it is the person from whom an estate is obtained based on law and blood. 
Two people have a genetic relationship if one is the ancestor of the other, or if they share a common ancestor. Each of someone's ancestors will have contributed to their DNA. In evolution, species that have evolved from the same ancestor are said to be of common descent. However, this concept of ancestry does not apply to some bacteria and other organisms capable of horizontal gene transfer. DNA testing is used in determining ancestry. This can be for testing, to determine the parents of a child for legal purposes. DNA is also used to better understand the ancestry and history of all humans over the last 50,000 years. This was one of the benefits of the Human genome project.
In some cultures ancestors may have relatively little importance. Many today have no knowledge of their own great-great-grandparents. China is an example of a culture that in general has a deep respect for ancestors. Korea is an example of a culture that engages in ancestor worship where ancestors are revered. But genealogy (the study of one's ancestors) is growing in popularity and includes both amateur and professional genealogists.

</doc>
<doc id="19656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19656" title="River dolphin">
River dolphin

River dolphins are five species of dolphin which live in fresh water rivers and estuaries. Three species live in fresh water rivers. The La Plata Dolphin lives in salt water estuaries and the ocean.
Both river dolphins and marine dolphins belong to a group of mammals called cetaceans. The snout of a river dolphin measures about 58 centimeters (2 ft) long, approximately four times as long as that of most marine dolphins. They use their long snout to search for fish on the muddy bottom of the river. River dolphins have smaller eyes than marine dolphins, and their vision is poorly developed because they live in dark, muddy water. River dolphins are less active than marine dolphins because they do not need to search so widely to find fish. Marine dolphins work in pods (packs) because when they find a shoal of fish then they work together to make the most of their find. River dolphins work mostly as individuals or small groups.
The following is the taxonomy of river dolphins, or how dolphins are classified: 

</doc>
<doc id="19657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19657" title="Estuary">
Estuary

An estuary is where a river meets the sea. There, saltwater mixes with freshwater. The river becomes wider and wider and flows slowly to the ocean.
Bays, marshes, swamps, and inlets can all have estuaries. A view of an estuary from the air is usually an interesting sight: many estuaries meander (curve and bend) to find their way to the sea. Estuaries come in all sizes and shapes, each according to its location and climate. Where rivers meet the sea and fresh water mixes with salt water, the mixture is called brackish water.
Some estuaries are very large. They may be large ocean bays that have more than one river flowing into them. For example, Chesapeake Bay is a large estuary, and several different rivers meet the Atlantic Ocean there.
Estuaries are usually filled with shallow waters, and sunlight reaches all levels of the water. Marsh grasses, algae, and other kinds of plants live in estuaries and provide food for a variety of fish, crabs, oysters, and shrimp. Estuaries are especially important since they act as nurseries for many different types of young fish and other animals before they head out toward the open ocean. Many sea birds also nest in estuaries.
The United States government has a program to study and protect the natural environment in many different estuaries, called the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. One reason that the natural environment in so many estuaries is in danger is because they are also good places for people to live and build cities. Unfortunately, many of world's largest cities are at or near estuaries.

</doc>
<doc id="19666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19666" title="James Bond">
James Bond

James Bond is a fictional British spy created by Ian Fleming in 1953.
In 1953, Fleming wrote "Casino Royale", the very first James Bond novel. The novel made a lot of money, and he continued to write one James Bond novel each year until he died in 1963. In a 1956 South African radio program "Moonraker" he was voiced by Bob Holness. In 1962 Albert. R. "Cubby" Broccoli and Harry Saltzman started to produce the first James Bond movie, Dr. No, starring Sean Connery as James Bond. The movie became extremely popular, and they continued to make more Bond movies. In the end of the 1960s Connery did not want to do any more Bond movies, and many thought that Bond was now dead. In 1969, George Lazenby appeared in one movie as the Bond character, but the movie was not successful.
In 1971 Sean Connery stepped back into the role for one movie "Diamonds are Forever". After this in 1973, producers came up with the "Live and Let Die" movie, starring Roger Moore as Bond. The movie became a very big success. The series continued throughout the 1970s and 1980s with Roger Moore playing the role of Bond.
In the 1980s, Bond movies were not as successful at the box office. Unlike the 1960s and 1970s, in the 1980s there were many other action movies being produced that could compete with the Bond series. 
After Moore left the role as Bond, he was replaced with Timothy Dalton in the late 1980s. Dalton tried to make a serious, "down to earth" Bond, closer to the Fleming novels. Fans did not like Dalton's interpretation of the Bond character, and the movies made little money.
The Cold War ended in 1991. Since Bond almost always fought Communists, many now thought that the Bond series of movies was finally dead.
In 1995, producers developed the Goldeneye movie, starring Pierce Brosnan as Bond. This film made the Bond character well known in the 1990s. Brosnan appeared in several Bond movies.
In 2002, the James Bond character was used in the 20th movie, Die Another Day, the 40th anniversary of the movies and the 50th anniversary since Fleming wrote his first Bond novel.
In 2006, the 21st movie, Casino Royale, was released. Pierce Brosnan, who played James Bond in the previous four movies, was replaced by Daniel Craig, the first James Bond to have blonde hair. The movie is based on the first Ian Fleming novel of the same name, but is set in the present day. The movie features a cameo appearance by Richard Branson, a British billionaire. It has a new model of Aston Martin DB9, the car that made James Bond so famous in the 1960s. Many fans think that whilst this movie is different than other movies, it is much better, and movies in the future (however few there will be) will be in this new format. In 2008, Craig appeared in a second Bond movie, "Quantum of Solace" and a third, "Skyfall", in 2012. His fourth appearance as Bond was with "Spectre" in 2016.
Many of the James Bond movies were massive hits. However, there are two movies classed as unofficial Bond films and not recognised as part of the series. The 1967 version of "Casino Royale" was a spoof, featuring "Jimmy Bond". Also, "Never Say Never Again" was not made by Albert R. Broccoli's production company, EON Productions. Connery is the tallest actor to play James Bond to this day.

</doc>
<doc id="19669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19669" title="A Streetcar Named Desire">
A Streetcar Named Desire

A Streetcar Named Desire is a 1951 movie. It is based on the 1947 play by Tennessee Williams. The movie stars Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh.

</doc>
<doc id="19674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19674" title="Tetrahedron">
Tetrahedron

A tetrahedron (triangular pyramid) is a three dimensional shape. It has four corners. It looks like a pyramid. It has six equally long edges, four corners and four equilateral triangular faces. Every two edges meet on one of those corners forming a sixty-degree angle. All its sides are triangles. 

</doc>
<doc id="19675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19675" title="Robert Hooke">
Robert Hooke

Robert Hooke FRS (Isle of Wight, 18 July 1635 – London, 3 March 1703) was an English naturalist, architect and polymath. Hooke played an important role in the birth of science in the 17th century with both experimental and theoretical work. He was a colleague of Robert Boyle and Christopher Wren, and a rival to Isaac Newton. Hooke was a leader in the plans to rebuild after the Great Fire of London in 1666.
There is no surviving portrait of Hooke.
He discovered Hooke's Law of elasticity. He designed and ordered the making of telescopes and microscopes, and used both instruments. He reported on this work in a book called "Micrographia" in 1665. He was the first person to see biological cells. He made drawings of bodies in the Solar System, and made the first attempts to measure the distance of certain stars.
Robert Hooke was appointed the Royal Society's first Curator of Experiments in 1662, and he rose to be Secretary of the Royal Society. He took responsibility for experiments performed at its weekly meetings. This was a position he held for over 40 years.
In 1664 Hooke also was appointed Professor of Geometry at Gresham College in London and Cutlerian Lecturer in Mechanics.
On 8 July 1680, Hooke observed the nodal patterns associated with the mode of vibration of glass plates. He ran a bow along the edge of a glass plate covered with flour, and saw the nodal patterns emerge.
Hooke did some fundamental work on gravitation and the motion of the planets. Forever after, he was convinced that Newton and the world had cheated him of the credit 
He was also known for his work in natural history (biology and geology). He reported on his microsope use in a book called "Micrographica" in 1665. He was the first person to see biological cells, and was the first to use the word 'cell' to describe them.
In 1668, in a talk to the Royal Society, he recognised that fossil shells of unknown marine animals suggested that some species had become extinct.
Hooke achieved fame in his day as Surveyor to the City of London and chief assistant of Christopher Wren. Hooke helped Wren rebuild London after the Great Fire in 1666. 
He also worked on the Royal Greenwich Observatory, and the infamous Bethlem Royal Hospital (which became known as 'Bedlam'). Many other buildings were designed by Hooke, including the Royal College of Physicians (1679). 
Hooke's collaboration with Christopher Wren included St Paul's Cathedral, whose dome uses a method of construction conceived by Hooke. Hooke also participated in the design of the Pepys Library, which held the manuscripts of Samuel Pepys's diaries, the most frequently cited eyewitness account of the Great Fire of London.
In the reconstruction after the Great Fire, Hooke proposed redesigning London's streets on a grid pattern with wide boulevards and arteries, a pattern later used in the renovation of Paris, Liverpool, and many American cities. This proposal was thwarted by arguments over property rights, as property owners were surreptitiously shifting their boundaries. Hooke was in demand to settle many of these disputes, due to his skill as a surveyor and his tact as an arbitrator.

</doc>
<doc id="19681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19681" title="Emission">
Emission

Emission is a word that originally comes from Latin. Originally it means something that is sent out. Several things can be sent out:

</doc>
<doc id="19686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19686" title="Leo Tolstoy">
Leo Tolstoy

Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy (9 September 1828 - 20 November 1910) was a Russian novelist and anarchist, famous for writing the books "War and Peace" and "Anna Karenina". He was a Christian and believed in non-violence. His work "The Kingdom of God is Within You" has influenced people like Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King.
Tolstoy was born at Yasnaya Polyana, the family estate in the region of Tula, Russia and he married Sofia Andreevna Bers. 
He died of pneumonia at Astapovo station in 1910 at the age of 82.

</doc>
<doc id="19687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19687" title="California wine">
California wine

People have made wine in the American state of California for a long time. California has become recognized as making some of the world's best wine. California makes most of the wine that is made in America.
People first made wine in California in 1769. Missionaries from Mexico brought their wine plants to produce wine for the mass. Later, people coming from Europe improved the making of wine. They had brought their own kinds of wine plants.
Before 1920, there was more wine made every year. Then Prohibition began. During Prohibition, it was not allowed to sell alcoholic drinks in the United States. It almost ended the making of wine in California. Californian wine-making took a long time to recover.
In 1990, the USA sent less than five percent of its wine to other countries. After that, exports of wine from California increased. Today, the USA is one of the big wine industries.
Wine comes in different colors. Most wines are called "red" or "white". White wine is not really white, it just has a very light color. 54 percent of the Californian wines are white wines. Some examples of white wines are Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc. Some examples of red wines are Zinfandel, Cabernet-Sauvignon, Merlot, and Pinot Noir.
Grapes for wine used to need warm weather. People wanted to grow more grapes, so they learned how to grow them where the weather was not as warm. That way of growing grapes is called "cool climate viticulture". Vines are now planted in colder places, up to above sea level. Monterey County was the first place where that was done.
In California, there are more than 800 wine cellars. Wine cellars are big rooms were wine is stored. They are part of a winery, the place where wine is produced.
Two of the most famous growing areas for wine in California are Napa County and Sonoma County. The wines from those places are some of the best in the world. Some examples of the wines made there are Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon.
Other known wineries are in Mendocino, in the Lake Counties, Santa Maria and Santa Barbara.

</doc>
<doc id="19689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19689" title="Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid">
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid

Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a 1969 American movie from 20th Century Fox. George Roy Hill directed it, and John Foreman produced it. It stars Paul Newman and Robert Redford as two robbers in Wyoming who go to Bolivia to escape the law.
The movie was loosely based on the real story of the two title characters (Butch Cassidy and his friend Harry Longabaugh, also called "Sundance"). But it made the legends of the two more popular.
It won four Academy Awards: for Best Cinematography (shooting work on a movie), Best Original Score, Best Song (Burt Bacharach's "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head") and Best Original Screenplay (William Goldman). It was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Director (Hill) and Best Sound. Goldman won the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
It was one of the largest-grossing movies of the 1960s (with $102.3 million in the United States). It was number fifty on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.
At first, Warren Beatty and Steve McQueen (even Marlon Brando) were called upon to play the title roles. When Newman and Redford took their place, the roles were switched, with Newman as Sundance, and Redford as Cassidy. The studio, 20th Century Fox, did not like Redford's role. But the movie's director, Hill, wanted it that way.
As a result, Redford has said that the movie made him a more famous actor.
The Sundance Film Festival is named after Redford's role, as well his Utah ski resort.

</doc>
<doc id="19724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19724" title="1480s">
1480s


</doc>
<doc id="19735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19735" title="Mehmed II">
Mehmed II

Mehmed II (March 30, 1432, "Edirne" – May 3, 1481, "Hünkârcayırı", near "Gebze") was Sultan of the Ottoman Empire for a short time from 1444 to 1446, and later from 1451 to 1481. At the age of 21, he conquered Constantinople. So he brought to an end to the medieval Byzantine Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="19758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19758" title="The Bold and the Beautiful">
The Bold and the Beautiful

The Bold and the Beautiful is a popular American soap opera. After "The Young and the Restless", it is the highest-rated soap opera there.
The series is shown in over 100 countries. About 300 million people watch it every day. This makes "The Bold and the Beautiful" the most watched television series in the world. The first episode was shown on March 23, 1987 on the CBS network. The series was created by the soap opera writer William J. Bell and his wife, Lee Phillip Bell. It is the only American soap opera to have its daily episodes translated into Spanish for the Hispanic viewers in the United States.
The series is set in Los Angeles, California. It tells the story of the Forrester family, who owns a fashion empire called Forrester Creations. The major members of the family are Eric Forrester (played by John McCook), the president of Forrester Creations, his wife Stephanie (Susan Flannery), their eldest son Ridge (Ronn Moss) and Brooke Logan (Katherine Kelly Lang), who was married to both the father and the son. She owns most of Forrester Creations. This is because she created "BeLieF", a formula which earned much money for the company. There used to be a second fashion company called Spectra Fashions. It was Forrester’s main competitor. The conflicts between the Forrester and the Spectra families was one of the major themes of the story.

</doc>
<doc id="19759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19759" title="Primary color">
Primary color

Primary colors (or primary colours) are sets of colors that can be combined to make a useful range of colors. The primary colors are those which cannot be created by mixing other colors in a given color space.
For subtractive combination of colors, as in mixing of pigments or dyes for printing, the primaries normally used are cyan, magenta, and yellow, though the set of red, yellow, blue is popular among artists.
For additive combination of colors, as in overlapping projected lights or in CRT displays, the primary colors normally used are red, green, and blue.
Primary colors are not a fundamental property of light but are related to the physiological response of the eye to light (the way the eye works). For humans, three primary colors are usually used, since human color vision is trichromatic.
Fundamentally, light is a continuous spectrum of the wavelengths that can be detected by the human eye, an infinite-dimensional stimulus space. However, the human eye normally contains only three types of color receptors, called cone cells. Each color receptor respond to different ranges of the color spectrum. Humans and other species with three such types of color receptors are known as trichromats.
Media that combine emitted lights to create the sensation of a range of colors are using the additive color system. Television is the most common use of this. 
The additive primaries are red, green,
and blue. Because of the response curves of the three different color receptors in
the human eye, these colors are optimal in the sense that the largest range
of colors — a gamut — visible by humans can be generated by mixing light of these colors.
Additive mixing of red and green light, produce shades of yellow or orange. Mixing green and blue produces shades of cyan, and mixing red and blue produces shades of purple and magenta. Mixing equal proportions of the additive primaries results in shades of grey; when all three colors are fully saturated, the result is white. The color space that is generated is called the RGB ("red, green, blue") color space.
Media that use reflected light and colorants to produce colors are using the subtractive color method of color mixing. In the printing industry, to produce the varying colors, apply the subtractive primaries yellow, cyan, and magenta together in varying amounts. Subtractive color works best when the surface or paper, is white, or close to it.
Mixing yellow and cyan produces shades of green; mixing yellow with magenta produces shades of red, and mixing magenta with cyan produces shades of blue. In theory, mixing equal amounts of all three pigments should produce shades of grey, resulting in black when all three are fully saturated, but in practice they tend to produce muddy brown colors. For this reason, a fourth "primary" pigment, black, is often used in addition to the cyan, magenta, and yellow colors.
The color space generated is the so-called CMYK color space. The abbreviation stands for "Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and Black" — K stands for "Kohle" (German for coal) and is used to represent black as 'B' could be confused with 'Blue'.
In practice, mixtures of actual materials like paint tend to be less precise. Brighter, or more specific colors can be created using natural pigments instead of mixing, and natural properties of pigments can interfere with the mixing. For example, mixing magenta and green in acrylic creates a dark cyan - something which would not happen if the mixing process were perfectly subtractive. In the subtractive model, adding white to a color does not (in theory) change its hue but does reduce its saturation. In fact, adding white usually does change the hue slightly (this is known as the Abney effect), for example, adding white to red makes it slightly bluish, or pink.

</doc>
<doc id="19760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19760" title="Umbilicus">
Umbilicus

The umbilicus (also called navel or bellybutton) is a mark on the body of mammals that is left after a baby loses its umbilical cord. The umbilicus of humans is in the middle of the abdomen. It is usually only easy to see on humans, and is a thin line on many other mammals. In humans, they can be split into two different kinds, the kind that goes in (innie) and the kind that goes out (outie). Different people have different navels that can be different in size, shape, and looks, but these differences are not genetic (you do not get them from looks passed down in your family). The hepatic portal vein passes from the umbilical vein to the liver. When a person becomes fat, the fat usually goes around the umbilicus.
It marks the water shed line of the body.The venus blood & lymph do not cross the umbilical plane.

</doc>
<doc id="19761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19761" title="James Cook">
James Cook

Captain James Cook, FRS (27 October 1728 – 14 February 1779) was an English explorer, navigator and cartographer. He made three voyages to the Pacific Ocean, mapping many areas and recording several islands and coastlines on European maps for the first time. He is most notable for the British finding the east coast of Australia, finding the Hawaiian Islands and the first mapping of Newfoundland and New Zealand. 
During his lifetime, he sailed twice around the world. He crossed the Antarctic Circle and found new islands and landscapes in North America and the South Pacific. During his trips, he spent a lot of time on science experiments, and mapping new areas. He also wrote a lot of books about what he found. 
Cook was born on 27 October 1728 in Marton in Yorkshire. He was a son of a Scottish farmer. He was educated at the school in Great Ayton, and at 17 he began work in a shop at Staithes. At 18, Cook became a sailor, and became an apprentice to John Walker of Whitby. Walker's business was transporting coal. Cook learned mathematics and navigation from Walker. Cook was not just a normal seaman. He studied as much as he could. That is how he learned a lot of good knowledge about navigation and science. He was sent on three expeditions with the ship called "Endeavour" all over the world.
His goals on these missions were:
He had four sons  and one daughter. Their names were Elizabeth Cook, Hugh Cook, George Cook, Nathaniel Cook and  Joseph Cook. His father’s name was James Cook. He had 3 sisters and 2 brothers. Their names were Mary Cook , Margaret Cook, William Cook , Jane Cook and John Cook.

</doc>
<doc id="19762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19762" title="Offside rule">
Offside rule

The offside rule is one of the oldest football rules, but is still a much discussed rule. This is because it is difficult for the referee or assistant referee to watch the ball, the player playing the ball and also the attacker who are seeking to receive the ball at the same time. 
Offside is an offence committed by the team which has the ball and is punished with an indirect free kick.
It is a common misconception that the ball must be played forward for an offside offence to be committed. This is incorrect however, as an offside offence is related to the position of the ball and the player receiving it rather than the direction it is played. If the player is in front of the ball when it is played and has not got at least two defending players closer to the defending goal line than they are, she or he is in an offside position. 
But there are some exceptions:

</doc>
<doc id="19763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19763" title="Valentine's Day">
Valentine's Day

Valentine's Day is a holiday that happens on February 14. It is the day of the year when lovers show their love to each other. This can be done by giving flowers, chocolates, Valentine's cards or just a nice gift. Love notes can be given to one another. These notes that people give out are called "valentines". Some people pick one person and calls them their "Valentine" as a gesture to show love and appreciation.
Symbols of Valentine's Day are heart shapes, roses, and Cupid with his arrows.
Valentine's Day is named for the martyred Christian saint named Valentine. He was a bishop that married forbidden couples.
Since the 14th century Valentine's pairs are formed in England. English emigrants took the Valentine's custom to the United States. After the Second World War, US soldiers brought this festival to Europe.
In the third century after Christ, Valentine was the bishop of Terni (Italy). He performed weddings for couples who were not allowed to get married. They may not have been allowed to get married because the parents did not agree with the connection or because the bridegroom was a soldier or a slave, so the marriage was forbidden. Valentine gave the married couple flowers from his garden. That's why flowers play a very important role on Valentine's Day. This did not please the emperor. On February 14, 269 AD, Valentine was beheaded because of his Christian faith.
An expansion of the legend combines the day of death of Valentine with the Roman festival Lupercalia. It was the festival of the great goddess Lupa, which is the feminine word for wolf. She was the Great She-Wolf who nursed the twin babies, Romulus and Remus, who later became the founders of Rome. During the annual ceremony, the temple priestesses (lupae) wrote their names on strips of papyrus. These were picked by young men. After the lottery, the youngsters walked through the city and got the blessings of the citizens. The martyr Valentine became the patron saint of the lovers. Still in the Middle Ages, as in France or in Belgium, people were chosen by the lottery to live a year with each other and people prayed to Saint Valentine to make love potions and charms.
In the 19th century, the custom of sending Valentine's Cards became very popular. The cards usually have pictures of hearts or flowers and contain some sort of poem, message, or code. Codes and simple messages give some people the to show their true feelings to the person they love. Today, some people still use mysterious codes to show their love. People can use newspapers to give a coded message to their loved one, giving other readers a view of the couples' intimacy with one another. Sometimes they will give each other chocolates.
Famous for the popularity of the celebration is the folk song called "Die Vogelhochzeit" ("The Birds' Wedding").
In China, a holiday called Qi Xi is also called "Chinese Valentine's Day", especially by younger people. Qi Xi is traditionally held on the 7th day of the 7th month of the lunar calendar. In recent years, it has become more like Valentine's Day in other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="19764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19764" title="Wikipedia:WikiProject">
Wikipedia:WikiProject

A WikiProject is a collection of pages that focuses on a specific subject within Wikipedia. It is not a place to write articles, but a tool to help others in writing articles. The talk pages that come with the projects are a useful forum for those who want to join a certain project.
Currently, Simple English Wikipedia is not yet large enough to have a large number of active WikiProjects. Many projects that have been created here in the past have been abandoned after a short amount of time. Because of this, WikiProjects are created in a user's userspace.
Anyone can create a WikiProject in their own namespace. Let's say you are user:Example and want to create a WikiProject about cars. You could create the page for your project. You may then notify the community of your WikiProject on and list it on this page on the list of current WikiProjects below.
If you have used another language Wikipedia, especially English Wikipedia, you may have seen a notice on article talk pages saying something like "This article is part of WikiProject Television". Until a WikiProject has been accepted by the community here and moved to the Wikipedia mainspace, it "should not" have notices placed on article talk pages. Once it is in the Wikipedia mainspace, it is fine to add these notices.
These projects are for helping other users.

</doc>
<doc id="19765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19765" title="Canary Islands">
Canary Islands

The Canary Islands are a group of islands off the coast of Morocco. They are an autonomous community of Spain(they make their own laws). There are seven main islands. The people who live there speak Spanish. The autonomous community has two capital cities, of equal status: Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Every island has been created by volcanoes on the bottom of the sea. Those volcanoes slowly rose above the water and made the islands. This process lasted many thousands of years.
The islands have a very long and interesting history. When Europeans first came to the Canary Islands, they found people already living there. These people were called the Guanches. Many of the Guanches were killed in 15th century battles with the Spanish, and the ones who remained adopted the Spanish way of life. After the Spanish conquest many battles were also fought against pirates. Most recently Morocco was interested in them. 
After the Spanish conquest many Europeans settled there. Portuguese and Spaniards, and also Belgians and Maltese were among the early settlers. Recently many people from all over Europe, America, India and Africa have also become citizens or permanent residents.
The seven islands are: La Palma, La Gomera, El Hierro, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Lanzarote, and Fuerteventura. People from La Gomera have a whistle language that children there learn at school. Tenerife has the highest mountain in the Canary Islands and Spain too, the Teide. The Teide is actually a volcano, but it has not been active in more than 300 years. 
The islands are popular with tourists because of their warm climate and nice beaches. The local farmers grow lots of exotic fruits including papayas and bananas.
The Canary Islands' main exports include bananas and tobacco.

</doc>
<doc id="19766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19766" title="Edinburgh Airport">
Edinburgh Airport

Edinburgh Airport (IATA EDI, ICAO: EGPH) is an airport in Scotland. It is one of seven airports in the United Kingdom owned by the company BAA, which also owns Glasgow Airport and Aberdeen Airport in Scotland.
On 19th October 2011, BAA Limited said that it is going to sell Edinburgh Airport. This was done following a decision by the UK's Competition Commission which said that BAA needs to sell either Glasgow or Edinburgh Airport.
In February of 2001 a Shorts 360 crashed shortly after taking off from Edinburgh Airport. Both pilots were killed but there were no passengers on board as it was a mail-carrying flight. 

</doc>
<doc id="19767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19767" title="Lufthansa">
Lufthansa

Lufthansa is the largest airline in Germany, and the second largest in Europe. Some of Lufthansa's hubs are Frankfurt am Main and Munich, A hub is an airport where people who fly from one city to a second city can transfer or change airplanes. 
Lufthansa buys airplanes from Boeing and Airbus. Lufthansa has big airplanes for flights to North America, Asia, and Africa. These flights are called long-haul flights because they are between cities that are far apart from each other. Lufthansa also has small airplanes for flights in Europe. These flights are called short-haul flights. 
Lufthansa is a member of the Star Alliance which means it is a partner with other airlines like United Airlines and Air Canada. Members of the Star Alliance cooperate or work together to schedule their flights better so that travelling is easier for passengers or people. 
The name of Lufthansa's frequent flyer program is Miles and More. People earn points for flights they travel on. When they have enough points, they can get a free flight. Lufthansa has Miles and More to encourage people to fly with Lufthansa.
Many regional flights are operated Lufthansa Regional with Lufthansa CityLine, Eurowings and Air Dolomiti.
Lufthansa uses these aeroplanes:

</doc>
<doc id="19768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19768" title="Orlando Bloom">
Orlando Bloom

Orlando Jonathan Blanchard Bloom (born 13 January 1977, in Canterbury, Kent, England) is an English actor. He is most known for his first major movie role as the elf Legolas Greenleaf in "The Lord of the Rings" movie trilogy.
In 1993, he moved to London to improve his career, doing bit parts in TV series like "Casualty". Then he played some theatres like "The Seagull", "Twelfth Night", and "Trojan Women". This is a role that he received some days before graduating the drama school in London.
Here are some movies, in which he played an important character:

</doc>
<doc id="19778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19778" title="871">
871


</doc>
<doc id="19779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19779" title="1791">
1791

The year of 1791 started on a Saturday in the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780" title="1084">
1084

Year 1084 (MLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19781" title="Chromium">
Chromium

Chromium is a chemical element. Its symbol on the periodic table (a list of all the elements) is Cr. It always has 24 protons, so its atomic number is 24. Its mass number (number of protons and neutrons) is about 54. Most of the times it has 28 neutrons, but different isotopes have more or fewer neutrons. As a metal, it has 24 electrons. Its ions have fewer electrons.
Chromium is a shiny metal. It is reactive, but it reacts with air to produce a very thin coating of chromium(III) oxide, which prevents it from rusting any more. 
Chromium occurs in several oxidation states; +2, +3, and +6 are most common. It forms chemical compounds that are colorful.
There are two main types of chromium ions, which are found in chromium compounds. One type of chromium ion ("Cr", trivalent chromium ) is required by our body and by those of other animals. If we do not get enough chromium, certain parts of our body may not work properly. We get most of the chromium we need from our food we eat. Chromium is also put into vitamins to make sure that we get enough. If we get too much of this type of chromium, it can harm our body.
Another type of chromium ("Cr" (chromate, hexavalent chromium), in the +6 oxidation state) can cause cancer or make people sick, even though most people do not get exposed to it much. It is found in places that make chromium metal, which is why they need to be cleaned up when they close. Hexavalent chromium can be destroyed by reacting it with reducing agents, turning it into Cr (trivalent chromium). They are strong oxidizing agents.
The chromate ion is CrO. Chromates are generally yellow.
The dichromate ion is CrO. Dichromates are red or orange.
Chromium occurs as chromite. Chromite is a mixture of iron(II) oxide and chromium(III) oxide. Its chemical formula is FeCrO. It is heated with sodium carbonate to make sodium chromate, iron(III) oxide, and carbon dioxide. The sodium chromate is reacted with sulfuric acid to produce sodium dichromate. The sodium dichromate is reduced by carbon to chromium(III) oxide. The chromium(III) oxide is reacted with aluminum to make chromium metal. The chromates and dichromates are what make chromium production areas toxic.
Chromium is used in different metal products. Stainless steel is the most common use. It is also used in "chrome plating", where it makes things shiny and stops corrosion. Some chromates were used as pigments, but they are toxic so people do not want to use them anymore. 
Chromium metal is nontoxic. But hexavalent chromium is toxic and carcinogenic, and trivalent chromium is mildly toxic in large quantities.

</doc>
<doc id="19782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19782" title="Neon">
Neon

Neon is a noble gas. It is chemical element 10 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ne.
The word "neon" comes from the Greek word meaning "new". It was discovered by William Ramsay and Morris W. Travers in 1898.
Neon does not react with other elements, so it is found by itself. There is not much neon in the air, and it is clear, so we do not see it.
Neon gas is used in gas discharge lamps. When electricity goes through the neon, it lights up red. Due to this quality, it is used in signs. Similar signs use other gases to make other colors, but they are also often called "neon signs". 
Neon is also a term referring to a type of color that is very bright, such as lime green.
No true chemical compounds including the neutral compounds of neon are known. Where there is the helium compound HHeF, which might be stable, the analogous componund with Neon is not.

</doc>
<doc id="19783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19783" title="Tin">
Tin

Tin is a chemical element with symbol Sn (for ) and atomic number 50. It is in Group 14 on the periodic table. It is not radioactive.
Tin is a silver, somewhat soft metal. It is a post-transition metal. Its melting point is 231.93°C and its boiling point is 2602 °C. It can melt easily in a flame. It is malleable. It makes a crackling sound called tin cry when a piece of it is bent. Tin has more non-radioactive isotopes than any other element.
Tin is found in two allotropes: alpha-tin and beta-tin. Alpha-tin is a brittle, dull, powdery, semimetallic form of tin. It is made when very pure tin is cooled. Beta-tin is the normal shiny, soft, conductive, metallic form. It is made at higher temperatures. The decay of tin by turning from beta-tin to alpha-tin is called "tin pest". Alpha-tin is not wanted in many places. When small amounts of other elements like antimony are added, the tin cannot change into alpha-tin. When alpha-tin is heated, it changes into beta-tin.
Tin can be hardened by adding antimony or copper, as well as some other elements. These also make it resistant to tin pest. Tin can also be made very shiny. Tin can make an alloy with copper called bronze.
Salt water and fresh water do not affect tin.
It does dissolve in strong acid to make tin salt.
It does react with some strong bases.
Tin is corrosion (the breakdown of materials due to reactions within its area) resistant to many things.
Tin forms chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +2 and +4. +2 compounds are reducing agents. Some of them are colorless while others are colored. +4 compounds are more unreactive and act more covalent.
Tin burns in air to make tin(IV) oxide, which is white. Tin(IV) oxide dissolves in acids to make other tin(IV) compounds. Tin(IV) chloride is a colorless fuming liquid when anhydrous and a white solid when hydrated. It easily reacts with water to make tin(IV) oxide and an acid again.
Tin reacts with hydrohalic acids to make tin(II) halides. For example, tin(II) chloride is made when tin dissolves in hydrochloric acid. Tin(IV) halides are made when tin reacts with the halogens. Tin(IV) chloride is made when tin reacts with chlorine. Tin(II) sulfate is different as it does not oxidize to tin(IV) sulfate. Tin(II) oxide is a blue-black solid that burns in air to make tin(IV) oxide.
+2 compounds are reducing agents. They are about as common as +4 compounds. Some are colorless, while others are colored.
+4 compounds are unreactive. Some are colorless.
Tin is not found as a metal in the ground. It is normally in the form of cassiterite. Cassiterite is a mineral containg tin(IV) oxide. The cassiterite is normally found downstream of the cassiterite deposit when it is by a stream or river. Tin is also found in some complicated sulfide minerals.
Tin does not have any major job in the human body.
Tin is made by heating cassiterite with carbon in a furnace. China is the biggest maker of tin.
People discovered tin long ago and used it with other metals. When copper and tin are mixed together, bronze is made. Bronze was important in the past, because it was one of the strongest metals available, which meant it was useful in weapons and tools. Bronze changed the world when it was first invented, starting the Bronze Age. People organized themselves more, because making tools from bronze was harder than making them from rock and wood like they did before.
Tin is used in solder. Solder used to contain a mixture of lead and tin. Now the lead is removed because of its toxicity.
Tin is also used to make pewter, which is mainly tin mixed with a small amount of copper and other metals. Babbitt metal also has tin in it. Tin is used to coat several metals, like lead and steel. Tin plated steel containers are used to store foods. The pipes on a pipe organ are made of tin. Tin foil was used before aluminium foil. Tin was one of the first superconductors to be found. Organotin compounds are more common than almost any other organometal compound. They are used in some PVC pipes to stop them from decaying. Organotin compounds are toxic, though.
Tin is not toxic, but tin compounds are very toxic to marine life. They are a little toxic to humans.

</doc>
<doc id="19785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19785" title="Silicon">
Silicon

Silicon is element 14 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Si.
Silicon looks like a metal, but does not do everything a metal does, like conduct electricity very easily. It is a metalloid. Silicon is used as a great deal in today's computers and virtually every electronic device. Germanium can also be used in computers, but silicon is easier to find. 
There is a lot of silicon on the Earth. At the beach, there is silicon in the form of sand. Sand is a compound of silicon known as silicon dioxide or silica. Glass is made by heating sand (or silicon dioxide) hot enough. The glass can have different colours by adding coloured compounds. Silicon also makes up a lot of different rocks and minerals, and they are known as silicates.
Silicon is a semiconductor, and much used in computers. A super-pure isotope of silicon, silicon-28, can now be made 40 times more pure than before. It is very important for the next big development in computers. This stores "qubits" in atoms of another element, like phosphorous, embedded in a tiny layer of ultra-pure silicon-28. These qubits can simultaneously encode a one and a zero, for incredibly fast and complex calculations.

</doc>
<doc id="19786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19786" title="Cadmium">
Cadmium

Cadmium is a metal. It is element 48 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Cd". Its atomic number is 48 and its atomic mass is 112.4. It is found in Group 12 on the periodic table.
Cadmium is a blue-gray soft metal. It can be considered a transition metal or a post-transition metal. It is malleable and ductile. It is similar to zinc. It melts at 321°C.
Cadmium has 8 natural isotopes. 5 are radioactive, but 3 have very long half-lives so their radioactivity is almost nothing. 
Cadmium is a moderately reactive metal. It corrodes in moist air and dissolves in acids. It burns in air when powdered to make the brown cadmium oxide. 
Cadmium forms chemical compounds in two oxidation states: +1 and +2. The +1 state is rare and unstable. The +2 state is much more common. Most +2 compounds dissolve easily in water and are white to yellow. Cadmium oxide can be brown, red, or white. Cadmium sulfide is bright yellow. Cadmium chloride and cadmium sulfate are colorless solids that dissolve easily in water. Cadmium fluoride is slightly soluble. Cadmium compounds are toxic when inhaled.
Cadmium was found by two chemists, German chemist Friedrich Stromeyer discovered it in 1817, and Karl Herman also discovered it in 1818. They were looking at an impurity in zinc carbonate and found cadmium. For about 100 years, Germany made most cadmium. Cadmium iodide was used as a medicine although it was toxic.
Cadmium ores are rare. Greenockite, a cadmium sulfide mineral is the only main ore and it is found with sphalerite, a zinc sulfide. Because of this, most cadmium comes from zinc processing. Cadmium as a metal is very rare but is found in one place in Russia.
China makes the most cadmium. South Korea and Japan also make cadmium. Cadmium is taken from the zinc metal by heating the zinc metal in a vacuum. Cadmium is boiled first. The cadmium is condensed and used. Cadmium is also taken by precipitating it from the solution of zinc sulfate used to make pure zinc by electrolysis.
In the 1930s and 1940s cadmium was mainly used to plate steel to prevent it from corroding. Then cadmium sulfide was used as a pigment in paint. 
Now, cadmium is mainly used in nickel cadmium batteries. 86% of cadmium is used in batteries as of 2009. Some people are trying to stop using nickel-cadmium batteries because cadmium is toxic. Cadmium is still used to electroplate steel to prevent corrosion. Only about 6% of cadmium is used for this. Cadmium is also used in lasers, nuclear reactors, phosphors, photoresistors, pigments, and semiconductors. Wood's metal, an alloy that melts very easily, has cadmium in it. Cadmium is used in some solder. 
Cadmium is not used in the human body or any other animal. A diatom uses cadmium, though. 
Cadmium is a highly toxic metal. Dust of cadmium or its compounds is very dangerous and can kill. Some countries have banned cadmium from electronics. Cigarette smoking is the most important source of cadmium. Smokers have about 4 times more cadmium in their blood than nonsmokers (people who do not smoke). Cadmium is thought to be carcinogenic, although people still debate whether it is other things with the cadmium that cause cancer, like arsenic.

</doc>
<doc id="19787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19787" title="Krypton">
Krypton

Krypton is a noble gas which means it does not react with many other elements. It is clear and has no taste or smell. The atmosphere is only about one millionth part krypton. The name "kypton" comes from the Greek word "kryptos" meaning hidden. It is used in fluorescent lamps, flashbulbs, and as a wavelength standard. The metre used to be defined as 1,650,763.73 wavelengths in a vacuum of krypton gas. Krypton has very few compounds.
The main use for krypton is to make light. There is one main type of krypton light bulbs. This is called a gas discharge lamp. There are three main types of these. First is a low energy gas discharge lamp or "neon light". Low energy gas discharge lights made from krypton are near white to green. Second is a high energy short length of time gas discharge light or "flash bulb". These are mostly used for photography. They are bright blue-white. Third is a high energy gas discharge light. This third kind is mostly used to light airport runways. They are also bright blue-white.
Krypton is number 36 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Kr.
Krypton was found by Sir William Ramsay and Morris Travers in Great Britain in 1898. Ramsay was given the 1904 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on noble gases. It was a difficult gas to discover; Ramsay suspected it existed but only found it by removing other gases. This is why he gave it the name Krypton. There is no mineral called Kryptonite or planet called Krypton, which features in the Superman comics by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. The fictional planet is probably better known than the real chemical element called Krypton.

</doc>
<doc id="19788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19788" title="Noble gas">
Noble gas

The noble gases are a group of elements that are all gases. These elements are all in group 18 of the periodic table. All of them are monoatomic, meaning each molecule is a single atom They almost never react with other elements. This is because they have a full 8 electrons outer electron shell. There are six noble gases:
All of these gases are found in air. They make up around 0.96% of the atmosphere. Noble gas compounds can be formed from noble gases.
When the noble gases are used in cold cathode tubes to produce light, each of them has a different colour. Since Radon is radioactive, it is usually not used for lighting. Here are pictures of what the others look like:
Ununoctium (element 118) is probably the next noble gas after Radon because it is the next box down in the same group. However it has a half life of 0.89 ms, after which it decays to Ununhexium (Element 116). This means its use is probably limited.
Noble gases were discovered by Lord Rayleigh and Sir William Ramsay. Rayleigh won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1904 for his work on noble gas. Ramsay won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 for his work with noble gas.

</doc>
<doc id="19790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19790" title="Polonium">
Polonium

Polonium is a rare radioactive metalloid. It is chemical element 84 on the periodic table and its symbol is Po. It was discovered in 1898 by Marie and Pierre Curie.
Polonium is highly unstable, radioactive and toxic. This makes it difficult to handle. It can be dangerous, even in very small amounts. One gram of Po will self-heat to a temperature of about . It also vaporizes easily.
Polonium has 33 isotopes, and all of them are radioactive. It is a very rare element in nature because of its short half-life. It is a breakdown product of uranium, so it is found in uranium ores. 
The former Russian secret service agent Alexander Litvinenko was murdered by having a tiny amount of polonium put into a drink.

</doc>
<doc id="19791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19791" title="Bismuth">
Bismuth

Bismuth is a chemical element. It is element 83 on the periodic table and its symbol is "Bi". Its atomic mass is 209. It is only a very little radioactive. The radioactivity is so little that it is seen as nonradioactive normally. Bismuth is only found as one isotope naturally, which is the almost nonradioactive one. Its radioactivity was predicted by scientists and proven by analyzing the metal. It is in Group 15 on the periodic table. 
Bismuth is a silver metal with a pink tinge to it. This pink color is because of its oxide coating. Bismuth is a post-transition metal. It is one of the strongest diamagnetic metals. It is almost as heavy as lead. Its melting point is quite low , which is normal for post-transition metals. It is quite brittle. It can make crystals with a shiny surface. This is because of the oxide coating too. As a liquid it is heavier than as a solid. Another chemical that does this is water. It does not conduct electricity or heat very well. 
Bismuth is somewhat similar to antimony. Bismuth makes a thin coating of bismuth(III) oxide when it is in air. This makes the colors on the crystals. It does not oxidize any more than the oxide layer. It burns when powdered with a bright blue flame, making yellow bismuth(III) oxide fumes. Bismuth reacts with sulfur when molten as well. Bismuth reacts with nitric acid to make bismuth(III) nitrate and concentrated sulfuric acid to make bismuth(III) sulfate and sulfur dioxide. It reacts with the halogens to make bismuth(III) halides. With fluorine it makes bismuth(V) fluoride unless the fluorine is diluted, though.
Bismuth forms chemical compounds in two main oxidation states: +3 and +5. +3 is more common. +3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents and are normally light yellow. +5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents. Bismuthates are the most common +5 compounds. Bismuth(V) fluoride is another +5 compound. Bismuth(V) oxide is an unstable red solid. Bismuth sulfide is a common ore of bismuth. Bismuthine, a bismuth hydride, is very unstable and only can be made at very cold temperatures. Bismuth makes many oxy- compounds like bismuth oxychloride. These compounds are made when bismuth halides dissolve in water.
+3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents except for bismuthine. They are normally pale yellow.
Bismuth(V) oxides (+5 compounds) are very strong oxidizing agents. Its chemical formula is BiO. It is a scarlet red solid. It decomposes to bismuth(III) oxide and oxygen easily. It is made by electrolysis of bismuth(III) oxide in a hot concentrated alkali like sodium hydroxide.
Bismuth was known since ancient times. It was confused with tin and lead, though. No one is credited for discovering bismuth. In the 1500s, people started realizing that bismuth was different than tin or lead.
Bismuth is not very common in the earth. It is only about twice as common as gold. Bismite, a bismuth oxide mineral, and bismuthinite, a bismuth sulfide, are two common ores. Bismuth is sometimes found as a metal, too.
Bismuth and its minerals are too rare to be mined. They are gotten by "secondary extraction". It is normally found in lead metal. The lead metal is purified by electrolysis, leaving the bismuth behind as a sludge on the bottom of the container. The copper is taken out of the sludge and the bismuth is purified by being reduced in a furnace and all the impurities are filtered out.
China makes the most bismuth. Peru, Mexico, and Japan also make bismuth.
Bismuth can also be recycled. This is difficult in many places because bismuth is used for things like bullets, solder, and stomach medicine that get scattered all over and cannot easily be gotten again.
Bismuth is used in alloys with very low melting points. Some of them melt in hot water. They are also found in solder that does not have lead in it. It can make alloys with other metals to make them more malleable. It is also used in bullets to replace lead. In some places lead bullets are outlawed as birds eat them and get lead poisoning. It is also used in alloys for plumbing. It is used in fishing sinkers. 
Bismuth is used in some medicines such as Pepto-Bismol. This medicine has bismuth subsalicylate in it. It is also used as an internal deodorant and to treat eye infections and peptic ulcers.
Bismuth oxychloride is used in cosmetics. Bismuth telluride is used in electronic thermometers. Another compound is used in superconductors and becomes a superconductor at a high temperature. It can be used as a pigment and in fireworks to make crackling sounds. It is used in the nuclear fuel of a nuclear reactor.
Bismuth is much less toxic than other heavy metals. This is why it is replacing lead in many things. It does not add up in the body like other heavy metals do. A very large amount of bismuth can poison the kidneys and liver, though. Because its oxide does not dissolve in water, it is considered safe for the environment.

</doc>
<doc id="19792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19792" title="Iridium">
Iridium

Iridium is the 77th element on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ir. Ir's atomic number(the amount of protons) is 77.
Iridium is a metal. It is very hard to find and costs a lot. It is known as a "noble metal". Iridium belongs to a group of metals known as transition metals. It looks like platinum and is found in asteroids and comets. It can be used to find out when an asteroid or comet will hit the Earth. It is a very costly metal that can fold and bend just like aluminum. It is very shiny. It is relatively rare on the Earth's crust. Most Iridium is found in Brazil, Canada, Myanmar, Russia, South Africa, and the United States. Iridium is the most corrosion resistant metal.
Iridium melts at 2410 °C and boils at 4130 °C.
Iridium is not needed in the body.
A man named Smithson Tennant first found it in the year 1803. Smithson Tennant found it in the remains when he left crude platinum in a mixture of hydrochloric acid and nitric acid.

</doc>
<doc id="19793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19793" title="Transition metal">
Transition metal

The transition metals are a group of metals that are found in the middle of the periodic table. They all have similar properties. The alkaline earth metals are to the left and the Group 3 elements, beginning with boron.
Transition metals have several general properties. They are harder and less reactive than the alkaline earth metals. They are also harder than the post transition metals. They make colorful chemical compounds with other elements. Most of them have more than one oxidation state.
Some of the transition metals are necessary to keep humans healthy, such as iron, zinc, and chromium. Other elements in the transition metals can be harmful to our body, like cadmium and mercury. Other elements like gold or silver do not really harm or help us. There are more transition metals than any other groups in the periodic table.
Only a few of the transition metals are colored; most of them are silver-gray or silver-bluish.

</doc>
<doc id="19794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19794" title="Osmium">
Osmium

Osmium is a chemical element. It is element number 76 on the periodic table. Its symbol is "Os".
There is not much osmium on earth. There is actually such a small amount that osmium is very expensive. 
Osmium is a metal and it does not react very much, and such a metal is known as a "noble metal".
Osmium is the densest (heaviest) element on the periodic table.
It was discovered in 1804 by Smithson Tennant in London, England. He found it together with Iridium in a bit of Platinum, which he had dissolved in Aqua regia.

</doc>
<doc id="19795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19795" title="Radon">
Radon

Radon is element 86 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Rn.
Radon is a gas and is part of the group known as the noble gases. It does not react with other elements, so it is found pure.
Radon is radioactive, meaning that it can give off harmful rays. Some people have high levels of radon in their houses, and this can be very dangerous. A lot of radon can get stuck in the basement of old houses, and so people end up breathing it in. It gets stuck in the lungs and has been known to cause cancer. There are groups that try to make sure there is no dangerous radon in houses.

</doc>
<doc id="19796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19796" title="FTP">
FTP

FTP, also known as File Transfer Protocol, is a communication protocol for the rapid, simple transmission of files across a network supporting the TCP/IP protocol. This network is generally the Internet, or a local network. FTP is a way of accessing files on another computer. FTP uses the Client-Server architecture, meaning that there is a server, that holds the files, and does the authentication, and a client, or the end-user, who is accessing the files. The server listens on the network for connection requests from other computers. The client can make a connection to the FTP server by using FTP client software. Once connected and authenticated (via rsh or SFTP) the client can do things such as uploading files to the server, downloading files (taking the server's files and putting them on his own computer) from the server, and renaming, deleting files on the server, changing file permissions, etc.
Most modern Operating Systems support FTP. This implies that any computer to connected to a TCP/IP based network can manipulate files on another computer on that network regardless of which operating systems are involved, provided that they are open to FTP connections. There are many existing FTP client and server programs, many of these are available free, or open source.
FTP connection is also seen in cellular phones when trying to transfer or receive data from a computer nearby. 
FTP server return codes show their status by the digits within them. A short explanation of various digits' meanings are given below:

</doc>
<doc id="19797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19797" title="Hypertext Transfer Protocol">
Hypertext Transfer Protocol

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (often abbreviated to HTTP) is a communications protocol. It is used to send and receive webpages and files on the internet. It was developed by Tim Berners-Lee and is now coordinated by the W3C. HTTP version 1.1 is the most common used version today. It is defined in RFC 2616.
HTTP works by using a user agent to connect to a server. The user agent could be a web browser or spider. The server must be located using a URL or URI. This always contains http:// at the start. It normally connects to port 80 on a computer.
A more secure version of HTTP is called "HTTPS". This contains https:// at the beginning of the URL. It encrypts all the information that is sent and received. This can stop malicious users such as hackers from stealing the information. HTTPS is often used on payment websites. HTTPS uses port 443 for communication instead of port 80.
The request message contains the following:
The request line and headers must all end with two characters: a carriage return followed by a line feed, often written <CR><LF>. The empty line must consist of only <CR><LF> and no other whitespace. In the HTTP/1.1 protocol, all headers except Host are optional.
A request line containing only the path name is accepted by servers to maintain compatibility with HTTP clients before the HTTP/1.0 standard. Even this site has a HTTP at it's beginning, which is: http://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol&action=edit&section=1
HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a communication protocol and it is used to send and receive webpages and other data files on the internet. A more secure version of HTTP is called HTTPS (Hyper Transfer Protocol Secure). It encrypts all the information sent and received. This can stop hackers from stealing the information; HTTPS is often used on payment websites.

</doc>
<doc id="19798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19798" title="Ethernet">
Ethernet

Ethernet is a way of connecting computers together in a local area network or LAN. It has been the most widely used method of linking computers together in LANs since the 1990s. The basic idea of its design is that multiple computers have access to it and can send data at any time. This is comparatively easy to engineer. 
If two computers send data at the same time, a collision will occur. When this happens, the data sent is not usable. In general, both computers will stop sending, and wait a random amount of time, before they try again. A special protocol was developed to deal with such problems. It is called Carrier sense multiple access with collision detection or CSMA/CD.
There are different Ethernet standards. Today, Ethernet cables look like thick telephone cables. They connect to boxes called hubs or switches. Each cable runs from a computer's network interface card (NIC) to such a box. This cable is called 10BaseT or 100BaseT, or 1000BaseT Cable.
All cable types:
Today, the cables for 10BaseT, 100BaseT, and 1000BaseT are the same. They use unshielded twisted pair of Category 5 (UTP-Cat5) or 5e for that. Shielded cable (STP-Cat5 or Cat5e) can be used when there is a lot of electrical noise, and Category 6 (UTP-Cat6 or STP-Cat6) works better with faster signals such as 1GBit or 10GBit.
Other devices, such as the Xbox 360 and the Playstation 3, can also be connected using the same kind of cabling. Certain computer peripherals, for example printers and certain hard disks can be directly connected to the network with such cables.
Ethernet can go at different speeds. In the beginning, Ethernet was at 10 MBits per second. The Ethernet most often used today is at 100 MBits per second. Most new computers now have the NIC built in, and can go at 1GBit per second. There are also standards for 1GBit per second and 10 GBit per second. 100 MBit can usually talk to 10 MBit, and 1 GBit can talk to 100 MBit and usually to 10 MBit (both full and half duplex).

</doc>
<doc id="19800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19800" title="Obesity">
Obesity

Obesity is the condition of being much too heavy for one's height so that one's health is affected. In other words, it means to be too overweight. Also known as being fat. It is considered a disease and has been described as an epidemic.
To know if a person is overweight, the body mass index (BMI) is calculated, by dividing the person's weight (in kilograms), by their height (in meters) squared (multiplied by itself). (This is only meaningful for adults who are fully grown, and should not be used for children. Growth charts can be used to measure obesity in children.)
A BMI between 20 and 25 is considered "normal". People with a BMI of 25 or more are said to be overweight; with 30 and above, they are considered obese, and with 35 and above, they are considered "severely obese" (this used to be called "morbidly obese"). In general, the BMI number is a good quantifiable measurement of a person's obesity. However, it is a poor predictor in people who are very athletic, because a person with a higher than average amount of muscle tissue will weigh more than an average person, thus resulting in a BMI that is higher than normal, even if that person is very large.
The most common cause for obesity is getting more calories than are used by the body. Other factors that often contribute to obesity are:
Genetics are known to contribute to obesity. Leptin is a hormone that is linked to obesity.
Many health problems are associated with obesity. An example is Type 2 diabetes. A woman with a BMI higher than 35 is 93 times more likely to develop diabetes. A 2009 review found that people with a BMI between 40 and 50 were 22.5 times more likely to die from diabetes than people with BMIs between 22.5 and 25.
An obese woman is more likely to have an unhealthy baby.
Risk is associated with where the excess fat is stored on the body. Abdominal obesity is particularly dangerous.
Some people think that the idea that obesity causes bad health is not completely true and has been exaggerated. An example is J. Eric Oliver. He wrote a book called "Fat Politics: The Real Story Behind America's Obesity Epidemic". There is evidence for this belief. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in 2003 that 400,000 people died because of being obese in 2000. Then in 2004 they said that the number was wrong. A 2013 review of scientific papers found that Grade 1 obesity (BMI 30-34.9) is not associated with increased deaths. Grades 2 (BMI 35-39.9) and 3 (40+) obesity are associated with much higher rates of death. It has been suggested that obesity is associated with mortality (death) because of mortality in Grade 2 and 3 obesity. People with grade 2 and 3 obesity are 29% more likely to die.
'Metabolically healthy obesity' is increasingly being recognized. Up to 40% of obese people are metabolically healthy. They are not more likely to get heart disease or die than metabolically healthy non-obese people.
The 'obesity paradox' is a term used to describe how obesity can lower the risk of death. Obesity increases the chance of getting heart disease. But obese people with heart disease are less likely to die in a 7 year period. The obesity paradox has also been found in patients with stroke, diabetes, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Scientists have not yet found a 'cure' for obesity that most people are willing to implement. It is common wisdom that people who lose weight will regain it all within 5 years.
However, this position has been scientifically challenged for over a decade. Additionally, modern research has achieved significantly higher success rates than the figure that dominates the popular internet. Therefore, diet and exercise is the most common recommended treatment for obesity - it has the potential for a very high treatment success rate.
Surgery can be used to treat obesity. Gastric bypass is the most common weight loss surgery. It makes a person's stomach smaller so that they feel full after eating less food and causes their body to absorb less calories. People who have surgery are usually very obese.
Some people think that obesity should not be treated at all. This position is contradicted by substantial medical research.
Weight loss medicines can make people want to eat less or make less of the energy from food be absorbed by their bodies. The only weight loss drug approved by the FDA for long term use is orlistat. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved other drugs because they have side effects. Also they are worried that people who are not obese will take them.
In the West, people associate obesity with negative characteristics such as laziness, ugliness, stupidity, etc. These attitudes are increasing. Discriminating against someone because of their weight is legal in the United States. The fat acceptance movement says that this is wrong and is a kind of prejudice called fatphobia. In some cultures obesity is viewed as positive. It is associated with wealth, beauty, and fertility. Westernization means that non-Western cultures are becoming more 'fatphobic' like the West.

</doc>
<doc id="19803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19803" title="Rn">
Rn

Rn or RN could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19808" title="Phillips Academy">
Phillips Academy

Phillips Academy (also called Andover, Phillips Andover, or PA) is a high school for boys and girls in Andover, Massachusetts, near Boston, USA. 
The school is a boarding school. 75% of the students live there.
Phillips Academy is the oldest private boarding school in the United States. Two American Presidents, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, went to school there.
Phillips Academy was founded during the American Revolution as an all-boys school in 1778. The great seal of the school was designed by Paul Revere. George Washington's nephews went to the school, and he once spoke at an assembly while visiting. John Hancock, the famous signer of the United States Declaration of Independence, signed the articles of incorporation.
Phillips Exeter Academy was made three years later in Exeter, New Hampshire by Samuel Phillips' uncle John. The football teams have played against each other almost every year since 1878. This makes their rilvalry one of the oldest high school rivalries in the country.
Paul Revere put bees, a beehive, and the sun into the school's great seal. The school's main motto, "Finis Origine Pendet", means "the end depends upon the beginning." It is written at the bottom of the seal. The school's second motto, "Non Sibi" means "not for self." 

</doc>
<doc id="19812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19812" title="Gluttony">
Gluttony

Gluttony is a wasting of resources. Usually it is food that is wasted. Either one person eats too much, or the person does something so the food (or the resources) do not reach those who need it.
In Christianity, this is considered to be one of the Seven deadly sins.

</doc>
<doc id="19813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19813" title="Greed">
Greed

Greed is a desire to have more goods, or more wealth than is needed. Christianity says that greed is one of the Seven deadly sins. There it is listed as "avarice", or in Latin "avaritia".

</doc>
<doc id="19815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19815" title="Mazurek Dąbrowskiego">
Mazurek Dąbrowskiego

Mazurek Dąbrowskiego is the Polish national anthem, made in 1797 by Józef Wybicki.

</doc>
<doc id="19816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19816" title="CSA">
CSA


</doc>
<doc id="19818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818" title="Fornication">
Fornication

Fornication is a word that means having sex with someone who is not your spouse. Many Christians and Muslims believe it is sinful.

</doc>
<doc id="19820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19820" title="Profit">
Profit

Profit is how much money somebody (normally a company) makes. This is found by subtracting how much money they have spent ("expenditure") from how much money they have brought in (revenue).
If John spends $15 on some ice cream cones, and then sells them for $20, he has made a profit of $5. This is because 20 minus 15 is 5.

</doc>
<doc id="19821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19821" title="Roasting">
Roasting

Roasting is a way of cooking. Something gets roasted if it is put over a fire, and some is burnt. The same effect can also be attained with a grill at a barbecue.
In different countries people like to roast different things. People usually roast joints of meats such as pork, beef, chicken, lamb, and duck. The roasted meat, along with its accompanying vegetables, is often called a roast.
Most meat being roasted has to cook for a relatively long time, to ensure the joint is cooked through. Variations to this include most joints of lamb and beef, which may be left "pink" or partially uncooked towards the centre.
Other things can be roasted too. For example, vegetables, coffee and chocolate. Coffee and chocolate are always roasted.

</doc>
<doc id="19823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19823" title="Influenza">
Influenza

Influenza, better known as the flu and sometimes called the grippe, is a common childhood illness, but is not as common among adults. It is not limited to humans, most mammals and many birds can also catch influenza. It is caused by several different viruses (see: RNA virus), which is why people can have the flu more than once. The name "influenza" comes from , meaning "influence".
Human Influenza can pass from one person to another very easily. It is most commonly spread by the microscopic droplets of mucus and fluid that are sent into the air when the sick person coughs or sneezes. Symptoms include cough, sore throat, muscle aches and pains, fever, headache, and rarely vomiting and diarrhoea. Influenza can also lead to other diseases, such as pneumonia. This makes it especially dangerous to young children and elderly people.
Although there is no cure for influenza, Antiviral drugs can be used to treat the illness so it is not as severe and does not last as long.
The influenza season runs from late fall to spring because most people catch it in the winter months. When there are more cases of influenza than expected, it will sometimes be called an epidemic. When there are a large number of cases of the same type of influenza all over the world, it is often called a pandemic.
Small changes that happen as flu is passed from one person to another is the most common way flu viruses change. This is the main reason that people can catch the flu every year.
The CDC keeps track of the different flu viruses that are circulating, and gives this information to the companies that make flu shots. Since the flu changes so much from year to year, flu shots have to be given for each new flu season.
Flu shots only protect against the most common flu viruses, and every now and then a slightly different type spreads more than expected. Usually when this happens, the existing flu shot gives some protection so that even if a person who had a flu shot catches it, they do not get as sick.
Some flu viruses are caught from animals. Bird flu, for example, is usually only caught by people in contact with sick birds (usually chickens). These types of flu virus are usually very limited, and while they can make a person very ill, usually other people do not catch the virus from the sick person.
Another way that the flu can change is when a person or animal catches two different flu viruses. The two viruses can exchange some of their genetic information, which can create a brand new flu that nobody has ever caught before.
If an animal flu virus changes in this way to one that can easily pass from human to human, many people become ill because nobody has any immunity to the new virus. Often, a brand new virus is more severe and kills more people.
New types of flu virus are usually what causes pandemics, and that is the reason many scientists have been following Bird Flu so closely—it kills six people out of every ten who catch it. This would be a very serious problem if it changes enough to spread easily between people.
This new flu virus got its name because it contains genetic parts that are commonly found in flu viruses that infect pigs. It is not spread by pigs or by eating pork—this is a new human virus being spread by humans.
Although information is still coming out about swine flu, so far it does not seem to be as severe as bird flu or the flu that caused the influenza pandemic of 1918 (also known as Spanish flu), but it is much too early to predict whether it will cause the next flu pandemic.

</doc>
<doc id="19824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19824" title="Pancreas">
Pancreas

The pancreas is an organ that makes hormones and enzymes to help digestion. The pancreas helps break down carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. The pancreas is behind the stomach and is on the left side of the human body.
The part of the pancreas that makes hormones is called the Islets of Langerhans. The Islets of Langerhans are a small part (2%) of the total cells in the pancreas. The Islets of Langerhans change which chemical they make depending on how much of other chemicals are already in the blood. So, the pancreas works to keep the level of chemicals in balance in the body. If the Islets of Langerhans stop working, a person will suffer from a disease called diabetes. Doctors are experimenting with taking the Islets of Langerhans cells from a donor body and putting them into the pancreas of a person with diabetes to make that person well.
The pancreas belongs to two systems of the body: the digestive system for its role in breaking down nutrients, and the endocrine system for producing hormones.
The pancreas releases these hormones:
The pancreas releases many different enzymes to help digestion:

</doc>
<doc id="19827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19827" title="Chloroplast">
Chloroplast

Chloroplasts are small organelles inside the cells of plants and algae. They absorb light to make sugar in a process called photosynthesis. The sugar can be stored in the form of starch. Chloroplasts contain the molecule chlorophyll, which absorbs sunlight for photosynthesis. In addition to chlorophyll, a chloroplast uses carbon dioxide (CO) and water (HO) to form sugar and gives off oxygen (O). Chlorophyll is what gives green plants their green colour. Chloroplasts also contain various yellow and orange pigments to assist in photon capture for photosynthesis.
Each chloroplast is surrounded by a double walled semi-permeable membrane. In the layered stacks are flat disk-shaped thylakoids. They contain light-absorbing pigments, including chlorophyll and carotenoids, as well as proteins which bind the pigments. Like mitochondria, chloroplasts also contain their own DNA and ribosomes.
Chloroplasts are one of the many different types of organelles in the cell. They are thought to have originated as endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. This was first suggested by Mereschkowsky in 1905 after an observation by Schimper in 1883 that chloroplasts closely resembled cyanobacteria. Almost all chloroplasts are thought to derive directly or indirectly from a single endosymbiotic event. 
Mitochondria also had a similar origin, but chloroplasts are found only in plants and protista. In green plants, chloroplasts are surrounded by two lipid-bilayer membranes. They are thought to correspond to the outer and inner membranes of the ancestral cyanobacterium. Chloroplasts have their own genome, which is much smaller than that of free-living cyanobacteria. The DNA which remains shows clear similarities with the cyanobacterial genome. Plastids may contain 60–100 genes whereas cyanobacteria often contain more than 1500 genes. Many of the missing genes are encoded in the nuclear genome of the host. 
In some algae (such as the heterokonts), chloroplasts seem to have evolved through a secondary event of endosymbiosis, in which a eukaryotic cell engulfed a second eukaryotic cell containing chloroplasts, forming chloroplasts with three or four membrane layers. In some cases, such secondary endosymbionts may have themselves been engulfed by still other eukaryotes, thus forming tertiary endosymbionts. In the alga "Chlorella", there is only one chloroplast, which is bell-shaped.
In some groups of mixotrophic protists such as the dinoflagellates, chloroplasts are separated from a captured alga or diatom and used temporarily. These klepto (stolen) chloroplasts may only have a lifetime of a few days and are then replaced.

</doc>
<doc id="19828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19828" title="Chlorophyll">
Chlorophyll

Chlorophyll is a chemical found in the chloroplasts of plants that allows the plant to absorb light. Energy from the light is used in photosynthesis to make glucose. This contains lots of stored energy which the plant needs to release. It does this through respiration. This energy is then used for lots of different things like growing or repairing damaged parts of the plant. Chlorophyll is also what gives the stem and leaf of the plant its green color.
Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in almost all plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. It absorbs light most strongly in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, followed by the red portion. However, it is a poor absorber of green and near-green portions of the spectrum; hence the green color of chlorophyll-containing tissues. Chlorophyll was first isolated in 1817.
Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to obtain energy from light.
Chlorophyll molecules are arranged in and around the membranes of chloroplasts. It serves two main functions. The function of most chlorophyll (up to several hundred molecules per photosystem) is to absorb light and transfer that light energy to reaction centres. These pigments are named after the wavelength (in nanometers) of their red-peak absorption maximum. These chlorophyll pigments can be separated in a simple paper chromatography experiment.
The function of the reaction center chlorophyll is to use the energy transferred to it from the other chlorophyll pigments to undergo a specific redox reaction. In this reaction the chlorophyll gives an electron to an electron transport chain. This reaction is how photosynthetic organisms such as plants produce O gas, and is the source for practically all the O in Earth's atmosphere. Photosystem I typically works in series with Photosystem II. 
The electron flow produced by the reaction center chlorophyll pigments is used to shuttle H ions across the membrane, setting up a chemiosmotic potential used mainly to produce ATP chemical energy; and those electrons ultimately reduce NADP to NADPH, a universal reductant used to reduce CO into sugars as well as for other biosynthetic reductions.
A green sea slug, "Elysia chlorotica", has been found to use the chlorophyll it has eaten to perform photosynthesis for itself. This process is known as kleptoplasty, and no other animal has been found to have this ability.
It still is unclear exactly why plants have mostly evolved to be green. Green plants reflect mostly green and near-green light to viewers rather than absorbing it. Other parts of the system of photosynthesis still allow green plants to use the green light spectrum (e.g. through a light-trapping leaf structure, carotenoids, etc.). Green plants do not use a large part of the visible spectrum as efficiently as possible. A black plant can absorb more radiation, and this could be very useful, notwitstandanding the problems of disposing of this extra heat (e.g. some plants must close their openings, called stoma, on hot days to avoid losing too much water). More precisely, the question becomes why the only light absorbing molecule used for power in plants is green and not simply black. 
The biologist John Berman has offered the opinion that evolution is not an engineering process, and so it is often subject to various limitations that an engineer or other designer is not. Even if black leaves were better, evolution's limitations can prevent species from climbing to the absolute highest peak on the fitness landscape. Berman wrote that achieving pigments that work better than chlorophyll could be very difficult. In fact, all higher plants (embryophytes) are believed to have evolved from a common ancestor that is a sort of green algae – the idea being that chlorophyll has evolved only once (common ancestor).
Shil DasSarma, a microbial geneticist at the University of Maryland, has pointed out that species of archaea do use another light-absorbing molecule, retinal, to extract power from the green spectrum. He described the view of some scientists that such green-light-absorbing archae once dominated the earth environment. This could have left open a "niche" for green organisms which would absorb the other wavelengths of sunlight. This is just a possibility, and Berman wrote that scientists are still not convinced of any one explanation.
Chlorophyll is a chlorin pigment, which is structurally similar to and produced through the same metabolic pathway as other porphyrin pigments such as haem. At the center of the chlorin ring is a magnesium ion. For the structures depicted in this article, some of the ligands attached to the Mg center are omitted for clarity. The chlorin ring can have several different side chains, usually including a long phytol chain. There are a few different forms that occur naturally, but the most widely distributed form in terrestrial plants is chlorophyll "a". The general structure of chlorophyll "a" was worked out by Hans Fischer in 1940. By 1960, when most of the stereochemistry of chlorophyll "a" was known, Robert Burns Woodward published a total synthesis of the molecule. In 1967, the last remaining stereochemical elucidation was completed by Ian Fleming, and in 1990 Woodward and co-authors published an updated synthesis. In 2010, a near-infrared-light photosynthetic pigment called chlorophyll f might have been discovered in cyanobacteria and other oxygenic microorganisms that form stromatolites. 
The different structures of chlorophyll are summarized below:
Chlorophyll Content meters measure the optical absorption of a leaf to estimate its chlorophyll content. Chlorophyll molecules absorb in the blue and red bands, but not the green and infra-red bands. Chlorophyll content meters measure the amount of absorption at the red band to estimate the amount of chlorophyll present in the leaf. To compensate for varying leaf thickness, Chlorophyll Meters also measure absorption at the infrared band which is not significantly affected by chlorophyll. 
The chlorophyll content of leaves can be non-destructively measured using hand-held, battery-powered meters. The measurements made by these devices are simple, quick and relatively inexpensive. They now have large data storage capacity, averaging and graphical displays.
Measurement of the absorption of light is complicated by the solvent used to extract it from plant material, which affects the values obtained,
In Angiosperms, the last step in the synthesis of chlorophyll is light-dependent. Such plants are pale (etiolated) if grown in the darkness. Non-vascular plants and green algae have an additional light-independent enzyme and grow green in the darkness instead.
Chlorosis is a condition in which leaves produce insufficient chlorophyll, turning them yellow. Chlorosis can be caused by a nutrient deficiency of iron--called iron chlorosis—or by a shortage of magnesium or nitrogen. Soil pH sometimes plays a role in nutrient-caused chlorosis; many plants are adapted to grow in soils with specific pH levels and their ability to absorb nutrients from the soil can be dependent on this. Chlorosis can also be caused by pathogens including viruses, bacteria and fungal infections, or sap-sucking insects.

</doc>
<doc id="19830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19830" title="Oak">
Oak

The oak tree is a tree or shrub in the genus "Quercus". There are about 600 living species. The common name "oak" may also appear in the names of species in related genera, such as "Lithocarpus". 
The genus "Quercus" is native to the Northern Hemisphere. It includes deciduous and evergreen species from cool temperate to tropical latitudes in Asia and the Americas. North America has the largest number of oak species: about 90 occur in the United States. Mexico has 160 species, of which 109 are endemic. The second greatest center of oak diversity is China, which has about 100 species.
Oaks have spirally arranged leaves, with rounded edges in many species; some have leaves with jagged edges or entire leaves with smooth margins. Many deciduous species do not drop dead leaves until spring. In spring, a single oak tree produces both male flowers (as catkins) and small female flowers. The fruit is a nut called an acorn, carried in a cup-like structure. Each acorn has one seed (rarely two or three) and takes 6–18 months to mature, depending on species. The so-called "live oaks" are evergreen. They are not a taxonomic group, just a life style which occurs across the genus.
The oak is a kind of hardwood forest tree. They are well-known for being a climax vegetation in the temperate zone of the northern hemisphere. What that means is, left untouched by humans, it would be the dominant tree. Much of England was covered by oak forests before modern farming took over the land. The last extensive oak woodlands were cut down to build ships for the Royal Navy in the 18th century. 
Some kinds of oak wood are very hard. A lot of furniture was made from oak wood, but the wood is now scarce and expensive. Much cheaper are softwoods like pine.
Oak trees can live up to 1000 years.
A mature oak tree stands about 100 feet tall (~30 metres). It is a home for more animals than any other European tree. 30 species of birds, 45 different bugs and over 200 species of moth have been found on oaks. Beetles burrow under the bark, and some drill holes into the wood. The leaves are eaten by many caterpillars. Many leaves carry strange little bumps on the underside. These are insect galls, caused by many little animals. Midges, moths, worms and tiny wasps lay their eggs in leaves or leaf buds. The leaf reacts by forming a growth around the eggs. Inside the gall, larvae develop. The leaf falls, but the larvae may come out only the next spring. Small galls only have one larva, but larger galls may contain as many as 30 larvae. 
"Main article:Acorn"
Oak trees produce acorns once a year which ripen in autumn. Oak trees may start producing acorns when they are about 20 years old. A mature oak may produce 90,000 acorns a year; this is several millions in its lifetime.

</doc>
<doc id="19831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19831" title="Glucose">
Glucose

Glucose is a simple carbohydrate, or "sugar". It is one of several kinds of sugars. It is important because cells in an organism use it as a source of energy. Turning glucose into energy is called cellular respiration, which is done inside the cells of a living organism.
Glucose is made by plants in a process called photosynthesis. It can also be made by animals in their liver or kidneys.
Having the right amount of glucose available in a person's body is important. It can be measured with a simple blood test. People that do not have enough glucose have low blood sugar levels. This is a health condition called hypoglycemia. People with too much glucose have hyperglycemia. They might have a health condition called diabetes.
Its chemical formula is CHO. This means it has 6 carbon atoms, 12 hydrogen atoms, and 6 oxygen atoms bonded together.
How sugars work, and how glucose can be formed, was studied by a German chemist named Emil Fischer in the 1890s. His work earned him the 1902 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
There are two forms of glucose, the α- and β- forms. The only difference between them is the position of the hydroxyl group, above and below the plane of the ring of the molecule.
For α-glucose, the hydroxyl (-OH) group is located below the ring, while for β-glucose, the (-OH) group is located above.

</doc>
<doc id="19836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19836" title="Cellulose">
Cellulose

Cellulose is the main chemical that forms the main structure of plants. It is the most abundant macromolecule on Earth. It is also a fibre.
Cellulose is made from a form of glucose and makes up most of the cell wall of plant cells. This is what keeps a plant in shape. Cellulose is not digestible by humans.
It is a polysaccharide, which is repeating units of a monosaccharide joined together by a glycosidic bond by a condensation reaction, there is a by-product of water, found in plants. It is very tough because when you join beta glucose together, they are opposite ways up, the bonds are straight, forming straight chains. There is hydrogen bonds between the polymers.
These fibers are in bundles of about 40, called microfibrils. Microfibrils are embedded in a hydrated network of other polysaccharides. The cell wall is assembled in place. The parts are made inside the cell and then assembled by enzymes associated with the cell membrane. 

</doc>
<doc id="19840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19840" title="Wikiquote">
Wikiquote

Wikiquote is a "sister" (related) project of Wikipedia. It is one of many projects run by the Wikimedia Foundation.
Wikiquote was based on an idea by Daniel Alston and made by Brion Vibber. The goal of the project is to produce a large reference of quotations from famous people, books, and proverbs, and to give details about them.
The project was first created in English. However, in July 2004, more languages were added. Some of there are:
As of May 2016, 31 versions each have more than 1,000 articles. The largest Wikiquote is the English project with over 26,500 content pages, followed by the Italian and Polish versions, both with over 22,000 content pages. In total, 60 languages have over 100 content pages.
In February 2010, the Simple English Wikiquote was locked and closed.

</doc>
<doc id="19841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19841" title="Brasília">
Brasília

Brasília () is the capital city of Brazil. The name is commonly spelled "Brasilia" in English. The city and its District are in the Central-West region of the country. It is on a plateau known as "Planalto Central". Brasília has a population of about 2,557,000 (3,599,000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate. It is the fourth largest city in Brazil. But the Brasília metropolitan area is the sixth largest in the nation. It is listed as a World Heritage Site. Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies.
Viewed from above, the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly. The Monumental Axis goes east-west and holds government buildings and monuments. The other axis is curved in a north south direction. The city is commonly referred to as "Capital Federal", or simply "BSB". As the national capital, Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the Brazilian government. The city also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies. Planning policies place residential buildings around expansive urban areas. The plan includes large avenues. It divides the city into sectors with different purposes, including accommodation and tourism. The city is built around an artificial lake, Lake Paranoá.
Residents of Brasília are known as "brasilienses" or "candangos". (The "candangos" are people who moved to Brasília when the city was established). In local usage, the word "Brasília" usually refers only to the First Administrative Region within the Distrito Federal (Federal District), where the most important government buildings are. Brasília has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil. In the rest of Brazil, Brasília is almost always means the Brazilian Federal District. There are several "satellite cities," which are also part of the Federal District.
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban planner and Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect. Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. They created the "Plano Piloto de Brasília". Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960. 
The Brasília subway system ("Metrô de Brasília") has 24 stations on two lines long. The subway currently covers the south half of the metropolitan area. In 2010, a light rail line was added. By 2014, the light rail line will go from the end of the north wing of the city to the airport in the south.
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília, connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many airports in other countries. It is the third most important airport of Brazil, in terms of passengers and aircraft movements.

</doc>
<doc id="19845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845" title="Musical genre">
Musical genre

A musical genre is how people describe different styles of music. Some of the most common music genres are: 
Plus there are several more common music genres. Religious music is also common, such as hymns, choir music and many more.

</doc>
<doc id="19861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19861" title="Dim sum">
Dim sum

Dim sum is a way of serving Chinese and/or Vietnamese food. A range of different foods are served to the people who are eating, including pork wontons, fried shrimp, and egg rolls.
They are served on small wooden platters, and are usually steamed.

</doc>
<doc id="19863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19863" title="Category:Toys">
Category:Toys

These articles are about toys, which are things for people to play with.

</doc>
<doc id="19864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19864" title="Super Smash Bros. Melee">
Super Smash Bros. Melee

Super Smash Bros. Melee, known in Japan as is a video game where players can choose from many people from the previous Nintendo games and have them fight each other. Players can fight alone or team up with someone else against a friend. This game is a sequel to "Super Smash Bros." for the Nintendo 64. "Super Smash Bros. Melee" is for the Nintendo GameCube. The sequel is called "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" for the Wii.
"Super Smash Bros. Melee" takes twenty five characters from many of Nintendo's series. It takes all twelve characters from "Super Smash Bros.", and adds thirteen new characters, including Princess Peach and Bowser from the "Mario", Princess Zelda and Ganondorf from "The Legend of Zelda", and new characters like Ice Climbers from "Ice Climber" and Marth from "Fire Emblem". Some characters are like other characters who were in the first game, like Ganondorf who's like Captain Falcon.
Sakurai planned to include more characters, including Diddy Kong, Meta Knight, King Dedede, Balloon Fighter, Solid Snake and Lucas but did not have time to fit them in. All of them except for Balloon Fighter made it into "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".
Items from different games can fall from the sky, like Poké Balls from "Pokémon" or Mushrooms from "Mario". These items can be used in different ways. For example, Poké Balls can summon Pokémon, and Mushrooms can either grow the person whom touches it unless it is a Poison Mushroom which makes them shrink.
"Super Smash Bros. Melee" has many stages that players can battle on. Most of the stages are based on Nintendo series like "Mario", "Pokémon", and "The Legend of Zelda".
"Super Smash Bros. Melee" has become very popular in tournaments. These tournaments do not use items or most stages, believing that these make the game unfair. In tournaments, however, a lot of characters are not strong enough to win. Some of the best characters for tournaments are Fox McCloud, Falco Lombardi, and Jigglypuff.

</doc>
<doc id="19865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19865" title="Catalysis">
Catalysis

Catalysis is the change in speed (rate) of a chemical reaction due to the help of a catalyst. Unlike other chemicals which take part in the reaction, a catalyst is not consumed by the reaction itself. A catalyst may participate in many chemical reactions. Catalysts that speed the reaction are called positive catalysts. Catalysts that slow the reaction are called negative catalysts, or inhibitors. Substances that increase the activity of catalysts are called promoters, and substances that deactivate catalysts are called catalytic poisons.
A catalyst is something which changes the rate of a chemical reaction. An example is when manganese oxide (MnO) is added to hydrogen peroxide (HO), and the hydrogen peroxide starts to break up into water and oxygen. Catalysts are either of natural or synthetic origin. Catalysts are useful because they leave no in the solution they have speeded up. A catalyst can also be used in a reaction again and again as it is not used up. There are many catalysts in our body which play an important part in many biochemical reactions. These are called enzymes. Most catalysts work by lowering the 'activation energy' of a reaction. This allows less energy to be used, thus speeding up the reaction. The opposite of a catalyst is an "inhibitor". Inhibitors slow down reactions. Some of them are found in snake venom and are dangerous for our nervous system or heart. 

</doc>
<doc id="19866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19866" title="Hydrogen peroxide">
Hydrogen peroxide

Hydrogen peroxide is a chemical compound. Its molecular formula is HO. It is used as a cleaner, and as hair bleach. In a concentration of 3% (meaning that there are 3 grams of hydrogen peroxide for 100 grams of a water solution), it can be used to treat wounds. Over time it will slowly become oxygen gas and water through decomposition. 
Chemists often use hydrogen peroxide in chemical reactions. It is a very strong oxidising agent when used with acid and water. "Oxidising agents" take electrons from other compounds.
Here hydrogen peroxide takes an electron from the Fe2+ ions and becomes water.
It can also be a reducing agent when used with other compounds. When it acts as a reducing agent, oxygen gas is also produced. "Reducing agents" give electrons to other compounds. This method is often used to make oxygen in laboratories.
Hydrogen peroxide can be bought in shops when mixed with lots of water but is very dangerous when the concentration is higher. It is flammable and causes burns.

</doc>
<doc id="19867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19867" title="Mayotte">
Mayotte

Mayotte is an island in the Indian Ocean next to Madagascar. 
It is geographically part of the Comoros Islands, but politically, it is part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="19869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19869" title="Halldór Ásgrímsson">
Halldór Ásgrímsson

Halldór Ásgrímsson (8 September 1947 – 18 May 2015) was the Prime Minister of Iceland. The leader of the Progressive Party since 1994, he took over as Prime Minister on September 15, 2004, from the Independence Party leader, Davíð Oddsson. He resigned in 2009.
He died from a heart attack at a Reykjavik hospital, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="19870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19870" title="Somaliland">
Somaliland

Somaliland is an unrecognized state in middle-east Africa. It borders the Republic of Djibouti to the west, the Federal Republic of Ethiopia to the south and Somalia to the east.
Somaliland was a British colony until 26 June 1960, when it became the Somaliland Protectorate, an independent country. On 1 July, 1960, the Somaliland Protectorate joined a new country called Somalia, and they formed the Somali Republic. In May of 1991, after a war, five families in the Somali Republic declared independence. They formed Somaliland out of six political areas in northern Somalia. 
Currently, Somaliland is an unrecognized state. This means that no country or international organization thinks that Somaliland is a real country. Instead, they include Somaliland as a part of Somalia. 
Somaliland has a republican government, with free elections. The capital is Hargeisa.
Most people in Somaliland speak Somali and Arabic. Article 6 of the Constitution of 2001 says the official language of Somaliland is Somali, but Arabic is a mandatory subject in school. English is also spoken and taught in schools.
The main Somali dialect is Standard Somali. Standard Somali is spoken in most of Somalia and in countries that border it. Standard Somali is used by almost all of the media in the Somaliland region.
Almost all Somalilanders are Muslims. This is because Islam is the state religion, and practicing a religion other than Islam is against the law. Small amounts of non-Islamic traditions exist in Somaliland, but Islam is very important to the Somali sense of national identity.
People from Somaliland, are often criticised for declaring independence from Somalia, and working as an independent state.

</doc>
<doc id="19873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19873" title="NSDAP 25 points manifesto">
NSDAP 25 points manifesto

The 25 points manifesto is a 25 point plan written by Adolf Hitler and Anton Drexler for the NSDAP when it was founded in 1920.
The purpose of the 25 points was explained in the fifth chapter of the second volume of Mein Kampf:
The leaders of the Party promise to work—if need be to sacrifice their very lives—to put this programme into action.

</doc>
<doc id="19875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19875" title="Penny">
Penny

A penny (plural "pence" in the United Kingdom, plural "pennies" in Canada and the United States) is a coin used by several countries where people speak English. This includes United Kingdom, the United States, where a penny is worth one cent, and Canada, where "penny" is an informal term for one cent coins. Canada stopped minting the penny in 2012. 
In British and American culture, finding a penny is often thought to be lucky. A popular expression is "Find a penny, pick it up, and all the day you'll have good luck." If someone asks you "A penny for your thoughts" They're wanting to know what you think. The phrase was first written in John Heywood's 1547 Dialogue Conteinying the Nomber in Effect of All the Proverbes in the Englishe Tongue, written when the penny was still a sterling silver coin. The possibly related American expression "my two cents" (meaning "my humble opinion") uses the low value of the penny to make fun of one's own thoughts in a funny way. In British English, to "spend a penny" means to urinate. The phrase does actually imply spending an actual penny: coin-operated public toilets commonly charged a predecimal penny, starting with the Great Exhibition of 1851. Around Decimal Day, British Rail introduced the "Superloo", better public toilets that charged 2p (roughly the equivalent of 6d.).

</doc>
<doc id="19883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19883" title="Matt Groening">
Matt Groening

Matthew Abram "Matt" Groening (born February 15, 1954) is an American cartoonist, screenwriter, producer, animator, author, musician, comedian, and voice actor. He is the creator of the comic strip "Life in Hell", as well as two successful television series, "The Simpsons" and "Futurama".
Groening has won 12 Primetime Emmy Awards, ten for The Simpsons and two for Futurama as well as a British Comedy Award for "outstanding contribution to comedy" in 2004. In 2002, he won the National Cartoonist Society Reuben Award for his work on Life in Hell. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 14, 2012.
He was born on February 15, 1954 in Portland, Oregon, the middle of five children. His mother Margaret Ruth was once a teacher. His father Homer Philip Groening was a filmmaker, advertiser, writer and cartoonist. Groening has Norwegian and German ancestry.
Groening grew up in Portland, and attended Ainsworth Elementary School, Lincoln High School and also The Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington.
Groening identifies himself as agnostic and liberal. He has often made campaign contributions to Democratic Party candidates. His first cousin, Laurie Monnes Anderson, is a member of the Oregon State Senate representing eastern Multnomah County.
He has been married twice. Groening and Deborah Caplan married in 1986. They had 2 sons - Homer (who is called Will) and Abe. Couple split up in 1999. In 2011, Groening married Argentinian artist Agustina Picasso and became stepfather to her daughter Camille. In May 2013, Picasso gave birth to Nathaniel Philip Picasso Groening who was named after American writer Nathanael West.

</doc>
<doc id="19892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19892" title="Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky">
Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky

Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky (Никола́й Ива́нович Лобаче́вский, 1792–1856) was a Russian mathematician. He became known for his achievements in non-euclidean geometry.
Lobachevsky was born in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. His parents were Ivan Maksimovich Lobachevsky, a clerk in a landsurveying office, and Praskovia Alexandrovna Lobachevskaya. In 1800, his father died and his mother moved to Kazan. In Kazan, Nikolai Ivanovich Lobachevsky attended Kazan Gymnasium. He graduated in 1807 and then went to Kazan University which was founded just three years earlier, in 1804. 
At Kazan University, Lobachevsky was influenced by professor Johann Christian Martin Bartels (1769–1833). Bartels was a former teacher and friend of German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss. Lobachevsky received a Master's degree in physics and mathematics in 1811. In 1814, he became a lecturer at Kazan University, and in 1822 he became a full professor. He served in many administrative positions and was the rector of Kazan University from 1827 to 1846. He retired (or was dismissed) in 1846. After this event his health rapidly deteriorated. In addition to teaching mathematics and physics at Kazan University Lobachevsky also was an astronomy teacher there. 
In 1832, he married Varvara Alexivna Moisieva. They had seven children.

</doc>
<doc id="19894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19894" title="Category:Mathematicians">
Category:Mathematicians

These articles are about mathematicians.

</doc>
<doc id="19896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19896" title="Category:Physicists">
Category:Physicists

These articles are about physicists.

</doc>
<doc id="19897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19897" title="Wildebeest">
Wildebeest

A wildebeest (also called Gnu) is an animal. It is a large hoofed mammal, that is part of the "Bovidae" family of animals. There are two species of wildebeest. Both live in Africa.
Wildebeest grow to 1.15 to 1.40 metres (at the shoulder) and they weigh between 150 and 250 kilograms when they are fully grown. They live in the plains and open woodlands in southern Africa. The biggest herds can be found in the Serengeti desert. (see below) Wildebeest can live for more than 20 years.
Like other members of the same family (antelopes, deer and goats, amongst others), they mainly eat grass (scientists call such animals "Herbivores", which means: "eating grass"). But since in the African grasslands, there is not always grass, wildebeest are forced to wander (Scientists speak about "migrations") to find food all year round. In May, about 1.5 million animals move from the grasslands to the woods. In November they move back; there is grass in the plains in summer.
The cows (the female Gnus) will calve (give birth to the young) in summer in the plains. After the females have given birth, the breeding season begins. The dominant males mark off (and defend) some territory. They do this with feces, and with scent.
Wildebeest are an important part of the ecosystem. With their dung, they fertilize the ground, and their trampling is good for new growth. They also provide food for predators, like lions and hyenas.

</doc>
<doc id="19898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19898" title="Gnu">
Gnu

Gnu or GNU may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19902" title="Serengeti">
Serengeti

The Serengeti (also Seremgeti) is a region of savannah (woodlands and grasslands) in East Africa. The south of it (80%) belongs to Tanzania. The north of it is in Kenya. It is about 30,000 square kilometers, and one of the greatest areas for wildlife. 
It has more than 1.6 million herbivores and thousands of predators. Wildebeests, gazelles, zebras and buffalos are the most common animals in the region.
This area is most famous for the migration that takes place every year.
Every year around October nearly 1.5 million herbivores travel towards the southern plains, crossing the Mara River, from the northern hills for the rains. And then back to the north through the west, once again crossing the Mara river, after the rains in around April. This phenomenon is sometimes also called the Circular Migration.
Also in this area is the archeologically significant Olduvai Gorge where some of the oldest hominid fossils are found.
The Serengeti region contains the Serengeti National Park, the Ngorongoro Conservation Area and Maswa Game Reserve in Tanzania and the Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya.
The park covers 14,763 km² (5,700 square miles) of grassland plains and savanna as well as riverine forest and woodlands. The park is in the north of the country, bordered to the north by the national Tanzania and Kenyan border, where it is continuous with the Masai Mara National Reserve. To the southeast of the park is Ngorongoro Conservation Area, to the southwest is Maswa Game Reserve, and to the western borders are Ikorongo and Grumeti Game Reserves, to the northeast is Loliondo Game Control Area.
Few people are allowed to live in the National Park. Exceptions the staff of the Park, researchers and staff of Frankfurt Zoological Society, and staff of the various lodges and hotels. The main settlement is at Seronera.
The park has three regions:
As well as the migration of ungulates, the park has a healthy stock of other resident wildlife, especially the "Big Five":
The park also supports many further species, including cheetah, Thomson's and Grant's gazelle, topi, eland, water buck, hyena, baboon, impala, African wild dog and giraffe. The park also boasts about 500 bird species, including ostrich, secretary bird, Kori bustard, crowned crane, marabou stork, martial eagle, lovebirds and many species of vultures.
Ngorongoro is the caldera of a huge extinct volcano, which is part of the Serengeti area. 
The Ngorongoro Conservation Area (NCA) is a UNESCO World Heritage Site 180 km (112 miles) west of Arusha in the Crater Highlands area of Tanzania. 
The main feature of the NCA is the Ngorongoro Crater, a large volcanic caldera. The crater, which formed when a giant volcano exploded and collapsed on itself some two to three million years ago, is deep and its floor covers . 
Estimates of the height of the original volcano range from fifteen to nineteen thousand feet (4500 to 5800 metres) high.
Although thought of as "a natural enclosure" for a very wide variety of wildlife, up to 20% or more of the wildebeest ("Connochaetes taurinus") and half the zebra ("Equus burchelli") populations leave the Crater in the wet season. The Ngorongoro lions are significantly inbred, with many genetic problems passed from generation to generation. This is due to the very few new bloodlines that enter the local gene pool, because few migrating male lions enter the crater from the outside. Those who do enter the crater often cannot contribute to the gene pool. The crater's male lions, because of their large size (the result of an abundant food source), easily expel outside competitors. 
Animal populations in the crater include most of the species in East Africa, but there are no impalas ("Aepyceros melampus"), giraffes ("Giraffa camelopardalis"), or crocodiles ("Crocodylus niloticus").
The crater highlands on the side facing the easterly trade winds receives 800–1200 mm of rain a year and is covered largely in montane forest, while the less-steep west wall receives only 400–600 mm; this side is grassland and bushland dotted with Euphorbia bussei trees. The crater floor is mostly open grassland with two small wooded areas dominated by "Acacia xanthophloea".
The Munge Stream drains Olmoti Crater to the north, and is the main water source draining into the seasonal salt lake in the center of the crater. This lake is known by two names: "Makat" as the Maasai called it, meaning salt; and "Magadi". The Lerai Stream drains the humid forests to the south of the Crater, and it feeds the Lerai Forest on the crater floor - when there is enough rain, the Lerai drains into Lake Magadi as well. Extraction of water by lodges and NCA headquarters reduces the amount of water entering Lerai by around 25%.
The other major water source in the crater is the Ngoitokitok Spring, near the eastern crater wall. There is a picnic site here open to tourists and a huge swamp fed by the spring, and the area is inhabited by hippopotamus, elephants, lions, and many others. Many other small springs are around the crater's floor, and these are important water supplies for the animals and local Masaai, especially during times of drought.
Aside from herds of zebra, gazelle, and wildebeest, the crater is home to the "Big Five Game" of rhinoceros, lion, leopard, elephant, and buffalo. The crater plays host to almost every individual species of wildlife in East Africa, with an estimated 25 000 animals within the crater.
Following the recommendations of a committee of scientists after the 2000 drought, an ecological burning program was implemented in the crater, which entails annual or biannual controlled burns of up to 20% of the grasslands. Maasai are now permitted to graze their cattle within the crater, but must enter and exit daily.
The conservation area also protects Olduvai Gorge, in the plains area. It is considered the seat of humanity after the discovery of the earliest known specimens of the human genus, "Homo habilis " as well as early hominidae, such as "Paranthropus boisei".
The Olduvai Gorge or Oldupai Gorge is a steep-sided ravine in the Great Rift Valley, which stretches along eastern Africa. Olduvai is in the eastern Serengeti Plains in northern Tanzania and is about thirty miles long. It is in the rain shadow of the Ngorongoro highlands and is the driest part of the region. 
It is one of the most important prehistoric sites in the world. Research there has greatly developed our understanding of early human evolution. Excavation work there was pioneered by Mary and Louis Leakey in the 1950s. It is still continued today by their family. During the Pleistocene, the site was that of a large lake, the shores of which were covered with successive deposits of volcanic ash. Around 500,000 years ago seismic activity diverted a nearby stream which began to cut down into the sediments, revealing seven main layers in the walls of the gorge.

</doc>
<doc id="19903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19903" title="Spider">
Spider

Spiders (order Araneae) are air-breathing arthropods. They have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom. Most make silk. They are a large order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all groups of organisms. About 40,000 spider species, and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists. Over twenty different classifications that have been proposed since 1900.
Almost all spiders are predators, and most eat insects. They catch their prey in several ways. Some build a spider web, and some use a thread of silk that they throw at the insect. Some kinds of spiders hide in holes in the ground, then run out and grab an insect that walks by. Others will make web 'nets' to throw at passing insects. Or they go out and simply attack their prey. Some can jump quite well and hunt by sneaking close to an insect and then jumping on it.
Spiders have a two-part body, the front part (cephalothorax) and the abdomen. Unlike insects, spiders do not have antennae. The more advanced spiders have a centralized nervous system, with their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax. Unlike most arthropods, spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs, and extend them by hydraulic pressure.
The smallest of full-grown spiders can be less than 4 mm. (0.1 inch). The largest of spiders can have a body length of 10 cm. (4 inches) or more. The largest can weigh 150 grams (5.3 oz). The largest of spiders are the tarantulas and the huntsman spiders. Some huntsman spiders in South East Asia can have a leg span of around 250–300 mm (9.8–11.8 in).
Most spiders have four pairs of eyes on the top-front area of the body, arranged in patterns that vary from one family to another. The main eyes at the front are capable of forming images. Jumping spiders' visual acuity exceeds by a factor of ten that of dragonflies, which have by far the best vision among insects. Human eye are only about five times sharper than a jumping spider's. They achieve this by a telephoto-like series of lenses, a four-layer retina and the ability to swivel their eyes and integrate images from different stages in the scan. The downside is that the scanning and integrating processes are relatively slow.
Spiders and other arthropods have modified their cuticles into elaborate arrays of sensors. Various sensors, mostly bristles, respond to touch, from strong contact to very weak air currents. Chemical sensors provide equivalents of taste and smell. Spiders also have in the joints of their limbs sensors that detect forces and vibrations. In web-building spiders all these mechanical and chemical sensors are more important than the eyes, while the eyes are most important to spiders that hunt actively. Like most arthropods, spiders lack balance sensors, and rely on their eyes to tell them which way is up.
Even a relatively large spider can have fangs with very sharp points. The fangs are hollow, like the needles used to give shots. Spiders use their fangs to inject toxins that kill the insects they will eat. Some kinds of spider venom attack the nervous systems of their prey, and other kinds of venom attack body tissues.
Almost all spiders are predators, and eat insects and other arthropods (including other spiders). Most use venom from their fangs to kill their prey. It is rare for spiders to capture prey that are much larger than they are. It is also difficult for most spiders to capture prey that are very much smaller than they are. Most species of spiders cannot live close together because they treat each other as their next meal, but there are some spiders that form colonies. Spiders eat not only spiders of other species, but spiders of their own species. Although the earliest spiders came before birds and mammals, some spiders of today will eat small fish, small birds, and even small mammals.
The black widow spider got its name because the females sometimes eat the males that mate with them. This may also happen in other species. Each species of spider has its own way of communicating with other spiders they meet. Because of the danger of being eaten, in some species the males have special hooks on their front legs with which they hold the female while they mate. Others bring the female something to eat. There are a few species in which the male spiders construct their own little webs that are connected to the webs of the females. In these species, the male is so much smaller than the female that it would be difficult for her to actually capture the male.
Most spiders have such poor vision that they will not even notice a dead insect. Jumping spiders are one exception to this rule. They have such good vision that they can find recently dead flies or other insects to eat.
Most spiders are predators, but the jumping spider "Bagheera kiplingi" gets over 90% of its food from fairly solid plant material produced by acacias as part of a beneficial relationship with a species of ant. 
Young spiders of several families feed on plant nectar. Studies have shown that they do this for long periods. They also clean themselves regularly while feeding. These spiders also prefer sugar solutions to plain water, which shows that they are looking for nutrients. Many spiders are nocturnal, they are most active during the night. The extent of nectar consumption by spiders may therefore have been under-estimated. Nectar contains amino acids, lipids, vitamins and minerals in addition to sugars. Studies have shown that other spider species live longer when nectar is available. Feeding on nectar also avoids the risks of struggles with prey, and the costs of producing venom and digestive enzymes.
Various species are known to feed on dead arthropods (scavenging), web silk, and their own shed exoskeletons. Pollen caught in webs may also be eaten, and studies have shown that young spiders have a better chance of survival if they have the opportunity to eat pollen. In captivity, several spider species are also known to feed on bananas, marmalade, milk, egg yolk and sausages.
The best-known method spiders use to capture prey is a sticky web. The placement of the web allows different spiders to trap different insects in the same area. Flat, horizontal webs allow them to trap insects that fly up from vegetation underneath, for example. Flat vertical nets allow them to trap insects in flight. The spiders that build webs usually do not see very well, but they are very sensitive to vibrations.
Females of the water spider "Argyroneta aquatica" build underwater "diving bell" webs which they fill with air and use eating their prey, molting, mating, and raising offspring. They live almost entirely within the bells, darting out to catch prey animals that touch the bell or the threads that anchor it. A few spiders use the surfaces of lakes and ponds as "webs", detecting trapped insects by the vibrations that these cause while struggling.
Net-casting spiders weave only small webs but then manipulate them to trap prey. They stretch their webs and then release them when prey strike them. Those of the family Deinopidae weave even smaller webs, hold them outstretched between their first two pairs of legs, and lunge and push the webs as much as twice their own body length to trap prey, and this move may increase the webs' area by a factor of up to ten. Experiments have shown that "Deinopis spinosus" has two different techniques for trapping prey: backwards strikes to catch flying insects, whose vibrations it detects; and forward strikes to catch ground-walking prey that it sees. These two techniques have also been observed in other deinopids. Walking insects form most of the prey of most deinopids, but one population of "Deinopis subrufus" appears to live mainly on tipulid flies that they catch with the backwards strike.
Mature female bolas spiders of the genus "Mastophora" build "webs" that consist of only a single "trapeze line", which they patrol. They also construct a bolas made of a single thread, tipped with a large ball of very wet sticky silk. They emit chemicals that resemble the pheromones of moths, and then swing the bolas at the moths. They catch about the same weight of insects per night as web-weaving spiders of similar size. The spiders eat the bolas if they have not made a kill in about 30 minutes, rest for a while, and then make new bolas. Juveniles and adult males are much smaller and do not make bolas. Instead they release different pheromones that attract moth flies, and catch them with their front pairs of legs.
The primitive Liphistiidae, the "trapdoor spiders" (family Ctenizidae) and many tarantulas are ambush predators that lurk in burrows, often closed by trapdoors and often surrounded by networks of silk threads that alert these spiders to the presence of prey. Other ambush predators do without such aids, including many crab spiders, and a few species that prey on bees, which see ultraviolet, can adjust their ultraviolet reflectance to match the flowers in which they are lurking. Wolf spiders, jumping spiders, fishing spiders and some crab spiders capture prey by chasing it, and rely mainly on vision to locate prey.
Not all spiders use silk to net their prey. Instead, these spiders may capture insects by grabbing them and then biting them. Among these kinds of spiders the two best known "genera" are the wolf spiders and the jumping spiders.
A Wolf spider will usually wait until an insect comes near to it, and then rush at the insect, grab it using its front legs, and then bite the insect so that its venom can do its work. 
Female Wolf spiders lay their eggs on a pad of silk and then draw the edges together to create a round ball that they carry along with them wherever they go. They hold their egg balls to their tail ends by using their silk. When the eggs hatch, the little spiders will crawl onto the mother's back, and she will carry them along with her for days or weeks. 
Wolf spiders are very good mothers and will strongly protect both their egg balls and their infants. When the time comes, the little spiders will leave the mother and each will go its own way.
Jumping spiders have very good eyes and can see well. They sneak as close to an insect as they can, and then they jump onto the insect and immediately bite it. Since they often hunt in trees, bushes, and on the sides of walls, if the jumping spider misses it may fall off. But they have a way to save themselves from harm. Before they jump they fasten their silk to the place where they have been standing, and as they jump they let out a silk safety line. So if they fall they will catch themselves when they reach the end of their silk safety line. Sometimes a jumping spider will catch an insect and then fall while still holding onto the insect. But the spider is still safe.
Jumping spiders make little silken "tents" for themselves to sleep in. When they lay eggs they keep them inside such a shelter. They do not take their eggs with them when they go out to hunt. 
For all male spiders it is dangerous to seek a mate. The female spider may not realize that the male is a spider of her kind, so she may try to eat it. The jumping spiders not only have visual patterns that identify them to each other, but the male jumping spider will do a special dance when it approaches a female of the same species. That way, the female can recognize that it is a male of her species. She will generally forget about eating for long enough to mate with the visiting male spider.
Jumping spiders have such good eyes that they will usually watch any human who tries to watch them. Some species are very shy and will run away if the human gets too close. But some species, such as Phidippus audax (the audacious or brave jumping spider) and Platycryptus undatus, can become calm if the human comes close to them slowly. Sometimes they will jump onto one of your fingers and then jump from finger to finger and from hand to hand. They seem to want to explore.
Some jumping spiders of the genus "Portia" hunt other spiders in ways that seem intelligent, outflanking their victims or luring them from their webs. Laboratory studies show that "Portia"'s instinctive tactics are only starting points for a trial-and-error approach from which these spiders learn very quickly how to overcome new prey species. However, they seem to be relatively slow thinkers, which is not surprising as their brains are vastly smaller than those of mammalian predators.
Ant-mimicking spiders face several challenges: they generally develop slimmer abdomens and false "waists" to mimic the three distinct regions (tagmata) of an ant's body; they wave the first pair of legs in form to their heads to mimic antennae, which spiders lack, and to conceal the fact that they have eight legs rather than six. They have large color patches round one pair of eyes to disguise the fact that they generally have eight simple eyes, while ants have two compound eyes; they cover their bodies with reflective hairs to resemble the shiny bodies of ants. In some spider species males and females mimic different ant species, as female spiders are usually much larger than males. 
Ant-mimicking spiders also modify their behavior to resemble that of the target species of ant, for example many adopt a zig-zag pattern of movement, ant-mimicking jumping spiders avoid jumping, and spiders of the genus "Synemosyna" walk on the outer edges of leaves in the same way as "Pseudomyrmex". Ant-mimicry in many spiders and other arthropods may be for protection from predators that hunt by sight, including birds, lizards and spiders. However several ant-mimicking spiders prey either on ants or on the ants "livestock" such as aphids. When at rest the ant-mimicking crab spider "Amyciaea" does not closely resemble "Oecophylla", but while hunting it imitates the behavior of a dying ant to attract worker ants. After a kill some ant-mimicking spiders hold their victims between themselves and large groups of ants to avoid being attacked.
Spiders reproduce sexually and fertilization is internal but indirect. In other words the sperm is not inserted into the female's body by the male's genitals but by an intermediate stage. Unlike many land-living arthropods, male spiders do not produce ready-made spermatophores (packages of sperm). Instead, they spin small sperm webs on to which they ejaculate and then transfer the sperm to structures on the tips of their pedipalps. When a male detects signs of a female nearby he checks whether she is of the same species and whether she is ready to mate; for example in species that produce webs or 'safety ropes', the male can identify the species and sex of these objects by smell.
Spiders generally use elaborate courtship rituals to prevent the large females from eating the small males before fertilization, except where the male is so much smaller that he is not worth eating. In some species males mate with newly molted females, which are too weak to be dangerous to the males.
In web-weaving species precise patterns of vibrations in the web are a major part of the rituals, while patterns of touches on the female's body are important in many spiders that hunt actively, and may 'hypnotize' the female. Gestures and dances by the male are important for jumping spiders, which have excellent eyesight. If courtship is successful, the male injects his sperm from the pedipalps into the female's genital opening on the underside of her abdomen. Female reproductive tracts vary. Some are simple tubes, but others have chambers where females store sperm, and release it when they are ready.
Males do get eaten in some species. Males of the genus "Tidarren" cut off one of their palps, and enter adult life with one palp only. The palps are 20% of male's body mass in this species, and detaching one of the two improves mobility. In the Yemeni species "Tidarren argo", the remaining palp is then torn off by the female. The separated palp remains attached to the female's opening for about four hours. In the meantime, the female feeds on the palpless male. In over 60% of cases the female of the Australian redback spider kills and eats the male after it inserts its second palp into the female's genital opening; in fact the males co-operate by trying to impale themselves on the females' fangs. Observation shows that most male redbacks never get an opportunity to mate, and the 'lucky' ones increase the likely number of offspring by ensuring that the females are well-fed. However males of most species survive a few matings, limited mainly by their short life spans. Some even live for a while in their mates' webs.
Females lay up to 3,000 eggs in one or more silk egg sacs, which maintain a fairly constant humidity level. In some species the females die afterwards, but females of other species protect the sacs by attaching them to their webs, hiding them in nests, carrying them in the chelicerae or attaching them to the spinnerets and dragging them along.
Baby spiders pass all their larval stages inside the egg and hatch as spiderlings, very small and sexually immature but similar in shape to adults. Some spiders care for their young, for example a wolf spider's brood cling to rough bristles on the mother's back, and females of some species respond to the "begging" behaviour of their young by giving them their prey, provided it is no longer struggling, or even regurgitate food.
Like other arthropods, spiders have to moult to grow as their cuticle ("skin") cannot stretch. Most spiders live for only one to two years, although some tarantulas can live in captivity for over 20 years.
Of the 40,000 spiders, less than 12 are known to be dangerous to humans. Most of the time, being bitten by a spider is painful. Most spiders use venom to paralyse their prey; they kill it through eating, or through a bite. A few spiders have venoms that can be dangerous to weakened people and those allergic to it. Since 1927, 13 people have died, after a bite from a "Atrax robustus" spider from Australia.
The spider that kills the most people, the black widow and other spiders in the genus "Latrodextus" are around 1 cm. in body length. The "Atrax" and "Phoneutria" spiders, which are also capable of killing people, both average around 2.5 cm. or one inch, and even the Widow spiders are large enough to be easily noticed. 
Even relatively small spiders like "Phidippus audax" can give a painful bite if you hurt them, but spiders are very helpful to human beings because they control insects that eat our crops.
Being afraid of spiders is a very common phobia (fear). The widow spiders (black widows and other members of their genus) never willingly leave their webs, so usually people get bitten when they touch the spider by mistake.
Click on a picture to see it larger:

</doc>
<doc id="19904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19904" title="1760s">
1760s


</doc>
<doc id="19907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19907" title="Grass">
Grass

Grass is a type of plant. A common kind of grass is used to cover the ground, in a lawn.
Graminoids are a broader group which includes the grasses. They are monocotyledons, usually herbaceous plants with narrow leaves growing from the base. They include the "true grasses", of the family Poaceae (also called Gramineae), as well as the sedges (Cyperaceae) and the rushes (Juncaceae). These three families are not closely related but belong to different clades in the order Poales.
The true grasses include cereals, bamboo and the grasses of lawns (turf) and grassland. Uses for graminoids include food (as grain, sprouted grain, shoots or rhizomes), drink (beer, whisky), pasture for livestock, thatch, paper, fuel, clothing, insulation, construction, sports turf, basket weaving and many others.
Many grasses are short, but some grasses, like bamboo can grow very tall. Plants from the grass family can grow in many places, even if they are very cold or very dry. Several other plants that look similar but are not members of the grass family are also sometimes called grass; these include rushes, reeds, papyrus, and water chestnut. 
Grasses are an important food for many animals, like deer, buffalo, cattle, mice, grasshoppers, caterpillars, and many other grazers. Unlike other plants, grasses grow from the bottom, so when animals eat grass they usually don't destroy the part that grows. Without grass, dirt can wash away into rivers. This is called erosion.
Graminoids include some of the most versatile plant life-forms. They became widespread toward the end of the Cretaceous. Fossilized dinosaur dung (coprolites) have been found containing grass phytoliths (silica stones inside grass leaves). Grasses have adapted to conditions in lush rain forests, dry deserts, cold mountains and even intertidal habitats, and are now the most widespread plant type. Grass is a valuable source of food and energy for many animals.
Lawn grass is often planted on sports fields and in the area around a building. Sometimes chemicals and water is used to help lawns to grow.
People have used grasses for a long time. People eat parts of grasses. Corn, wheat, barley, oats, rice and millet are cereals, common grains whose seeds are used for food and to make alcohol such as beer.
Sugar comes from sugar cane, which is also a plant in the grass family. People have grown grasses as food for farm animals for about 10,000 years. Grasses have also been used to make paper for more than 4000 years. People use bamboo to build houses, fences, furniture and other things. Grass plants can also be used as fuel, to cover roofs, and to weave baskets.Though most people don't think so , grass shouldn't be cut, it shreds the grass and causes brown spots on a lawn.Once grass has grown 9 inches,it will cut its self ,by the top up from the tiller . 
In English, the word "grass" appears in several phrases. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="19910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19910" title="Category:Tigers">
Category:Tigers

These articles are about tigers ("Panthera tigris").

</doc>
<doc id="19913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19913" title="Cacao tree">
Cacao tree

The cacao tree is a small tree originally in tropical South America. It is small, and only grows to 4 to 8 meters in height. Its seeds are called cocoa and are used to produce cocoa butter, the chocolate drink, as well as chocolate. Nowadays the trees are grown in plantations in many tropical countries. 
Cacao is planted on over 70000 square kilometres worldwide with 40% of production coming from Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, and Indonesia. Each country produces about 15%, with smaller amounts coming from Brazil, Nigeria, and Cameroon.
A tree begins to bear fruit when it is 4 or 5 years old. In one year, when mature, it may have 6,000 flowers, but only about 20 pods. About 300-600 seeds (10 pods) are required to produce around 1 kg of cocoa paste.
There are three main cultivar groups of cacao beans used to make cocoa and chocolate. The most prized, rare, and expensive is the Criollo Group, the cocoa bean used by the Maya. Only 10% of chocolate is made from the Criollo, which is less bitter and more aromatic than any other bean. The cacao bean in 80% of chocolate is made using beans of the Forastero Group. Forastero trees are significantly hardier than Criollo trees, resulting in cheaper cacao beans. Trinitario, a hybrid of Criollo and Forastero, is used in about 10% of chocolate. For details of processing, see cocoa.
Cacao beans were commonly used as currency in Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. In some areas, such as Yucatán, they were still used in place of small coins as late as the 1840s.

</doc>
<doc id="19916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19916" title="Mahabad">
Mahabad

Mahabad (, ); (Old name: سابلاخ: Sablakh, which may be of Mongolian origin) is a city in Iran. It is in the north-west of the country. The city is south of Lake Urmia in a narrow valley 1,300 metres above sea level. It is in West Azarbaijan Province. It has about 162.434 people who live in the city. Mahabad is connected by road with Tabriz 300 km north, Urmia 150 km north and Irbil in Iraq. Mahabad has also a branch of Islamic Azad University.
The city is one center and symbol of the Kurdish nationalism. The reason is because 1945 it was the capital of the new founded people's Republic of Mahabad. The republic was conquered by Iranian forces in 16 December 1946. The president was Qazi Muhammad. The majority of the population is Kurdish. During the revolution in Iran, at 3 September 1979 the city was bombed and occupied by Iranian forces. After the death of Shivan Qaderi, a student and opposition activist in July 9 2005, the Kurdish population protested against the Iranian government.
The region of Mukrian consists of Piranshahr and Mahabad.

</doc>
<doc id="19917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19917" title="Category:Cities in Iran">
Category:Cities in Iran

These cities are in Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="19921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19921" title="Category:Inventors">
Category:Inventors

These are inventors.

</doc>
<doc id="19923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19923" title="Category:1936 books">
Category:1936 books

People made these books in 1936.

</doc>
<doc id="19924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19924" title="Shivan Qaderi">
Shivan Qaderi

Shivan Qaderi (or Sivan Ghaderi or Schuaneh Ghaderi; born 1979 or 1980; died 9 July 2005 in Mahabad) was a student and opposition activist in Iran. After his death in 2005, the Kurds protested and the Iranian government had to send more than 100,000 soldiers to this region. The Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran reported, that about 50,000 people had protested after his death on the Chuwarchira Square. Humans Rights First say that, after he was shot, Iranian soldiers tied Ghaderi's body "to a military vehicle and dragged it through the city, obviously trying to frighten the population so that they would not organize any more protests."

</doc>
<doc id="19928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19928" title="Sauce">
Sauce

In cooking, a sauce is a liquid mixture added to another food for flavour. Sauces are not normally eaten by themselves; they add flavour, moisture, and visual appeal to another dish. Sauces are an essential element in cuisines all over the world. 
The main sauces of French cuisine are built on a basis of roux, which is just flour and the liquid part of butter. Examples from Italian cuisine are the egg, cheese and ham sauce called "Carbonara"; the ground meat sauce called "bolognese", and the herbs and garlic sauce called "pesto".
Bottled sauces can be poured over food when it is served. An example would be the tomato-based sauce that is usually poured over spaghetti. Gravy is a brown sauce served with meat.
"Sauce" is a French word taken from the Latin "salsus", meaning "salted". Possibly the oldest sauce recorded is "garum", the fish sauce used by the Romans.
Sauces need a liquid component, but some sauces (for example, pico de gallo salsa or chutney) may contain more solid elements than liquid. 
Sauces may be used for savoury dishes or for desserts. They can be prepared and served cold, like mayonnaise, prepared cold but served lukewarm like pesto, or can be cooked like bechamel and served warm or again cooked and served cold like apple sauce.
Some sauces are commercial products like Worcestershire sauce, HP sauce, soy sauce or ketchup. In French cuisine they are freshly prepared by the chef. Sauces for salads are called salad dressing. A cook who specializes in making sauces is a saucier.
Sauces in French cuisine date back to the Middle Ages. There were hundreds of sauces in the culinary repertoire, and were a major defining characteristic of French cooking of the 19th and 20th centuries, until nouvelle cuisine. 
In the 19th century, the chef Antonin Carême classified sauces into four families, each of which was based on a mother sauce (Also called "grandes sauces"). Carême's four mother sauces were:
In the early 20th century, the chef Auguste Escoffier updated this classification to five mother sauces. They are:
A sauce which is based on one of the mother sauces is sometimes called a small sauce, minor sauce, or secondary sauce. Most sauces commonly used in classical cuisine are small sauces, or derivatives of one of the above mentioned mother sauces. 
Mother sauces are not commonly served as they are; instead they are augmented with additional ingredients to make small (derivative) sauces. For example, Bechamel can be made into Mornay by the addition of Gruyère or any cheese one may like, and Espagnole becomes Bordelaise with the addition and reduction of red wine, shallots, and poached beef marrow.

</doc>
<doc id="19931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19931" title="Spaghetti">
Spaghetti

Spaghetti is a long, string-shaped kind of pasta.
The word "spaghetti" was first used in 1849 as "sparghetti" in Eliza Acton's "Modern Cookery". It comes from Italian "spaghetto", which means "string".
Spaghetti is made from wheat noodles, which are boiled in water for a short time. Spaghetti can either be served as a side dish, or as a main dish. As a main dish, a sauce is added. There are many different kinds of sauces. Simpler ones are made of butter, more complicated ones include tomatos, garlic, olive oil and various other herbs. Different varieties with mussels, fish or meat also exist. Ground Parmesan cheese is often added. 
In Italy the sauce is usually mixed with the spaghetti while they are being prepared. Usually, spaghetti are eaten only with a fork, or with a fork and a spoon. Sometimes, they are cut with a knife for small children. Many Italians see using a knife to eat spaghetti as bad manners, except to prepare them for small children.
There is a story about how spaghetti came to Italy. In the legend, Marco Polo found spaghetti in China during his visit in 1295, and he took some back to Italy. 
Today, spaghetti is eaten everywhere. In the United States, there is a kind of spaghetti called "Alvaro's spaghetti" which is served with alfredo sauce. In some countries,like United States or Canada, meatballs are often in the spaghetti sauce.
In China, spaghetti is often made by hand. In Italy, spaghetti is made with a machine so that large amounts can be made quickly. Italy is the biggest producer and consumer of spaghetti in the world. 
Spaghetti is called by other words when it has a different thickness: "spaghettini (n. 3)", "spaghetti (n. 5)", and "spaghettoni (n. 8)".

</doc>
<doc id="19933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19933" title="Emperor penguin">
Emperor penguin

The Emperor penguin ("Aptenodytes forsteri") is a penguin that lives in Antarctica. It is the tallest and heaviest penguin. They are the only birds that can lay their eggs on ice.
Emperor penguins are about tall, weigh up to , and have a wingspan of . Emperor Penguins are black and white like all penguins, and the sides of their neck are golden.
They eat mostly crustaceans, such as krill, but also eat fish and squid.
Emperors live in the coldest climate on earth. Temperatures can drop as low as -140 degrees Fahrenheit (-95.6 °C) on the Antarctic ice. They breed at the beginning of the Antarctic winter (March and April), on the ice all around the Antarctic continent. They live in large groups, called colonies, that can have up to 20,000 birds. They huddle close together to keep warm. Emperor penguins live for about 20 years, although some have been known to live for 40 years.
The shape of their body helps them to survive. They have short wings that help them swim and to dive up to to catch larger fish. The deepest dive recorded is . They can swim up to for a short time, which lets them escape their main enemy, the leopard seal. They can stay warm because they have a thick layer of blubber. The layer of downy feathers trap air that keeps the body heat in and cold air and water out. They also have large amounts of body oil that help in keeping them dry in the water. 
While they are very fast in the water, on land the birds can only walk very slowly. On ice they can lie on their stomachs and use their wings to slide along, like a toboggan.
Emperor penguins spend most of their time in the water, coming to the shore to breed. There is nothing on the ice to make a nest, so after the female lays her one egg in winter, the male puts the egg on his feet to keep it warm until spring. This can be from 65 to 75 days. He has a special fold of skin on his stomach which can fold over and cover the egg to keep it warm. This is a difficult action to swap the egg from the female to the male; if it sits for too long on the ice it will freeze. He does not eat during this time, and can lose up to half his weight. To keep warm, all the male penguins huddle together. Those on the outside of the group will slowly shuffle their way into the middle; the group is always moving and can move as much as in 24 hours. The female comes back in spring when the egg hatches, while the male will go back to sea to eat, but comes back to help look after the chick. The chick lives on its parents feet for about 50 days until it becomes strong enough to survive the cold.
The Australian movie "Happy Feet" was based on the story of an emperor penguin who is unable to sing and get a mate because he was left for too long on the ice when still an egg.

</doc>
<doc id="19934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19934" title="Snares penguin">
Snares penguin

The Snares penguin ("Eudyptes robustus"), is a crested penguin. It is probably a subspecies of the Fiordland penguin. It is a penguin from New Zealand. It has a size of 50-70 cm and a weight of 2.5-4 kg.
It breeds on The Snares, a small island group south of New Zealand's South Island. 

</doc>
<doc id="19942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19942" title="Chuar-chira Square">
Chuar-chira Square

Chuar-chira Square (, ) (meaning "Square of the four candles"), is a known square in center of city of Mahabad where after Iranian invasion in 1947, Qazi Muhammad the president of Republic of Mahabad was hanged in public as well as other leaders of the republic in Mahabad and Bukan. In 2005 the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran reported that about 50.000 persons had demonstrated against the Iranian gouverment. The reason was the death of Shivan Qaderi. 
It is now officially called Shardari Square. This square is one of the oldest places of Mahabad city.

</doc>
<doc id="19943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19943" title="Complex number">
Complex number

A complex number is a number, but is different from normal numbers in many ways. A complex number is made up using two numbers combined together. The first part is a real number. The second part of a complex number is an imaginary number. The most important imaginary number is called formula_1, defined as a number that will be -1 when squared ("squared" means "multiplied by itself"): formula_2. All the other imaginary numbers are formula_1 multiplied by a real number, in the same way that all real numbers can be thought of as 1 multiplied by another number. Arithmetic functions such as, addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division can be used with complex numbers. They also follow commutative, associative and distributive properties, just like real numbers. 
Complex numbers were invented to answer special equations that have exponents in them. These began to pose real problems for mathematicians. As a comparison, using negative numbers, it is possible to find the "x" in the equation formula_4 for all real values of "a" and "b". 
With exponentiation, there is a problem. There is no real number that gives −1 when it is squared. In other words, −1 (or any other negative number) has no real square root. To solve this problem, mathematicians introduced an "imaginary number" called "i". That imaginary number will give −1 when it is squared. 
The first mathematicians to have thought of this were probably Gerolamo Cardano and Raffaele Bombelli. They lived in the 16th century. It was probably Leonhard Euler who introduced writing formula_5 for that number.
All complex numbers can be written as formula_6 (or formula_7 ), where "a" is called the "real part" of the number, and "b" is called the "imaginary part". We write formula_8 or formula_9 for the real part of a complex number formula_10. If formula_11, formula_12. Similarly, we write formula_13 or formula_14 for the imaginary part of a complex number formula_10; formula_16.
The complex number can also be written as a set . Both "a" and "b" are real numbers. Any real number can simply be written as formula_17 or as the set .
The set of all complex numbers is usually written as formula_18.
Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division as long as the divisor is not zero, and exponentiation (raising numbers to exponents) are all possible with complex numbers. Some other calculations are also possible with complex numbers.
The rule for addition of complex numbers is pretty simple: let formula_19, then formula_20. Multiplication is a bit different: formula_21
Another notable operation for complex numbers is "conjugation". A complex conjugate formula_22 to formula_11 is formula_24.
It is pretty simple, but is important for calculations, because formula_25 belongs to the real numbers for "all" complex formula_10.
Complex numbers can be shown on a so-called complex plane. If you have a number formula_11, you can go to "a" point on the real axis and to "b" on the imaginary and draw a vector from formula_28 to formula_29. You can calculate the length of this vector using the Pythagorean theorem and angle between the real axis and this vector, counting counterclockwise. The length of a vector for a number formula_10 is called modulus (formula_31), and the angle is argument (formula_32).
This leads to the trigonometrical form of describing complex numbers: by the definitions of sine and cosine, for all formula_10 stands that
formula_34
This is closely connected to De Moivre's formula.
There exists even another form, called exponential.
With the addition of complex numbers to math, every root of a polynomial with complex coefficients is a complex number. The successful addition of the complex numbers to math also help to open a path to the creation of another sorts of numbers that could resolve and help to explain many different problems, for example the: , , , and many others. See . 

</doc>
<doc id="19946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19946" title="Frederick I of Prussia">
Frederick I of Prussia

Frederick I of Prussia (), (11 July 1657–25 February 1713) of the Hohenzollern dynasty was the first King in Prussia (1701–1713).

</doc>
<doc id="19948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19948" title="Siege of Jerusalem (1187)">
Siege of Jerusalem (1187)

The Siege of Jerusalem took place from September 20 to October 2, 1187. It was part of the war called the Third Crusade.
Balian of Ibelin defended Jerusalem against the armies of Saladin.
A fictionalized version of the siege (attack) is seen in the movie "Kingdom of Heaven", directed by Ridley Scott.

</doc>
<doc id="19949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19949" title="Beer Hall Putsch">
Beer Hall Putsch

The Beer Hall Putsch was a failed coup d'état in Munich, Germany between the evening of 8 November and the morning of 9 November 1923. The Nazi Party under Adolf Hitler tried to take over the government of Bavaria, a state in Germany. They began trying to do this by taking several hundred people hostage in a beer hall (a large building where people got together to drink beer and sometimes listen to political speeches). Several Nazis died when they got into a gun fight with police officers in another part of Munich, and Hitler then went to prison for eight months.
Hitler chose to do this for many reasons. The Weimar Republic of Germany was weak because of fighting between right and left-wing parties. Inflation had also left the Weimar Republic with very little support from the people, or money to keep working (paying bills, or even paying pensions and wages). This happened because when Germany lost World War I, other countries made Germany pay for the entire war, and Germany had to make taxes very high so it could pay for the war. This hurt the economy of Germany.
The Nazi Party was getting very strong. Hitler was a strong leader. In 1923, the year when the Weimar Republic was least popular, the Nazi Party grew from 6,000 members to 55,000 members.
Hitler also wanted to copy Mussolini, who had taken power in Italy by marching into Rome.
8 November 1923 - Hitler and his men charged into the Beer Hall and forced the people there to support him. Hitler's men, the SA took over the Army Headquarters, but forgot to take over the telegraph office. This meant that anybody could call in the police.
9 November 1923 - 16 Nazis and 4 Bavarian State Police officers were killed in a gunfight between the Nazis and the police in "Residenzstraße". Hitler was arrested two days later.
Hitler and several of his friends were taken to court for treason, because they took up arms against the government. In the end, Hitler was sent to prison for about eight months, and the Nazi Party broke up (however, it would later get back together).
More people learned about Hitler. Before this happened, he was unknown. But after this, he was a hero to many. Many Germans at that time wanted a strong leadership after the governments of the Weimar Republic.
Hitler also took the time he had to spend in prison to write a book, called Mein Kampf or "My Struggle". It sold millions and told people about his ideas. Mein Kampf also made Hitler popular. (Hitler did not actually write the words down himself. Instead, he told another Nazi, Rudolf Hess, what to write down, and Hess wrote the words down.)
Hitler also had to re-think his strategy. He realised he could not take power the same way that Mussolini had done. Instead, he had to get power through being elected.
The people who died during the Putsch are seen as the first to die for the Nazi Party and are mentioned in Mein Kampf as Martyrs.

</doc>
<doc id="19950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19950" title="Verona">
Verona

Verona is a city in the Veneto region in Italy with 260,000 inhabitants. It is famous for being the setting for the Shakespeare play "Romeo and Juliet" and because of the Roman Arena. This city is built on the river Adige. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="19951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19951" title="Kiev">
Kiev

Kyiv () is the capital and largest city of Ukraine. Almost three million people live there.
The city hosted the UEFA Euro 2012 final.
Kyiv has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="19952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19952" title="Harare">
Harare

Harare is the capital of Zimbabwe. It is home to over 1.6 million people. It was known as "Salisbury" from its foundation on September 12, 1890 until April 18, 1982.
Harare is Zimbabwe's leading financial, commercial, and communications centre, and a trade centre for tobacco, maize, cotton, and citrus fruits. Manufactured goods include textiles, steel and chemicals, and gold is mined in the area. The city's suburbs include Borrowdale, Mount Pleasant and Avondale. The richest neighbourhoods are to the north. The University of Zimbabwe, the country's oldest university (founded in 1952), is situated in Mount Pleasant, about 6 km (3.7 mi) north of the city centre. Harare is home to the country's main Test cricket ground, Harare Sports Club, and to Dynamos F.C., Zimbabwe's most successful association football team.

</doc>
<doc id="19955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19955" title="Seventh-day Adventist Church">
Seventh-day Adventist Church

The Seventh-day Adventist Church is a Protestant Christian group. It is different from other Protestant groups because the followers believe that Saturday is the day we should worship God. The Bible calls this day the "Sabbath". The Sabbath is the seventh day of the week (Gen 2:1-3) in Judaism and in the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Saturday is the sixth day of the week in the major Christian denominations. That is why they are called "Seventh-day Adventists". Although the abbreviation "SDA" is commonly used, "Adventist" is the church's preferred shortening of "Seventh-day Adventist".
The Seventh-day Adventist Church came from the Millerite movement in the United States. This included people from many denominations. The Millerites started in the middle part of the 19th century. The Millerites were people who followed the teachings of William_Miller_. Miller preached that Jesus is coming very soon, in the Second Coming or Second Advent. The church name "Adventist" came from the word "Advent." The Seventh-Day Adventist Church started in 1863.
Much of the theology of the Seventh-day Adventist church is the same as evangelical teachings such as the Trinity and Biblical inerrancy. Teachings that are different include the unconscious state of the dead (which means that when people die, they do not wake back up until Judgment Day) and the doctrine of an investigative judgment. The Bible says so in Ecclesiastes 12:7 .
The church is also known because it thinks a healthy diet is very important they believe that they should not eat unclean foods like pig, certain fish, and animals that the Bible names as unclean . They practice healthy eating, vegetarianism (not eating meat), and staying away from things they think are immoral such as smoking, drinking or doing anything to harm what they consider the Temple Of God or their bodies.It also promotes religious liberty. When it comes to culture, it is more conservative. All of this is written in the Adventist Health message .
Among the founders of the Church was Ellen G. White. She wrote many texts that are still thought to be very important in the church today. She was a dedicated Christian who believed she got visions from God about the end of the world and what heaven will be like.
The world church is governed by a General Conference. Smaller regions are administered by divisions, union conferences and local conferences. It is present in over 200 countries and territories and is ethnically and culturally diverse. The church runs many schools, hospitals and publishing houses worldwide, as well as a prominent humanitarian aid organization known as the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA). There are about 18.5 million people in the Seventh-day adventist church worldwide.
The Seventh-day Adventist Church is organized with a representative form of church government and the world-wide Church has 13 Divisions.
The Seventh-day Adventist World Church Statistics shows a growing church with 15,660,347 members as of December 31, 2007.
The Adventist News Network reported in June 2010 (during the 59th quinquennial General Conference Session of the Seventh-day Adventist Church held in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.) that Seventh-day Adventists reached a membership of 16,300,000, according to the church's Office of Archives and Statistics. The world church Secretary stated that when counting unbaptized children and family members who attend services, the church numbers between 25 and 30 million.
Seventh-day Adventists believe in Protestantism.
Seventh-day Adventist believe in the 28 Fundamental Beliefs. This statement of beliefs was adopted by the General Conference in 1980, with an extra belief (number 11) being added in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="19958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19958" title="Lye">
Lye

Lye is the name of different things:

</doc>
<doc id="19960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19960" title="Luck">
Luck


</doc>
<doc id="19961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19961" title="Antony and Cleopatra">
Antony and Cleopatra

Antony and Cleopatra is a play by Shakespeare. It is a tragedy. Shakespeare's source was Plutarch's "Lives". The play was first performed between 1606 and 1607. It was probably first printed in the First Folio of 1623. The play describes the romantic love and suicides of Antony and Cleopatra. 

</doc>
<doc id="19964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19964" title="Het Wilhelmus">
Het Wilhelmus

Wilhelmus is the title and first word of the Dutch national anthem. It became the anthem in 1932.
The melody is taken from a French soldier's song. It is the oldest melody of a national anthem of the world.
The song has 15 verses, and the first letters of each verse form the name "Willem van Nassov", the subject of the song.
Lyrics (translation):
Original version:

</doc>
<doc id="19968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19968" title="1803">
1803


</doc>
<doc id="19969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19969" title="1661">
1661

1661 was a common year starting on a Saturday in the Gregorian calendar, and a common year starting on a Tuesday in the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="19970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19970" title="1579">
1579


</doc>
<doc id="19971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19971" title="752">
752


</doc>
<doc id="19972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19972" title="1005">
1005

1005 (MV) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the fifth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19973" title="1233">
1233


</doc>
<doc id="19974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19974" title="1736">
1736


</doc>
<doc id="19975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19975" title="1340">
1340


</doc>
<doc id="19976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19976" title="1128">
1128


</doc>
<doc id="19977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19977" title="984">
984


</doc>
<doc id="19978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19978" title="1639">
1639


</doc>
<doc id="19979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19979" title="1003">
1003

1003 (MIII) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the third year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19980" title="Fuzzy logic">
Fuzzy logic

Fuzzy logic is a sort of computer logic that is different from boolean algebra. It is different in the way that it allows values to be more accurate than on or off. While boolean logic only allows true or false, fuzzy logic allows all things in between. An example of this could be a computer game: A person is standing in a doorway while a thing explodes. The character is hit or not hit if boolean logic is used, but the doorway protects him from the explosion. Therefore, he might only be hit 20%, and takes less damage.
To put it in more precise mathematical terms, classical logic has two values. These values are usually called "false" (0) or "true" (1). With fuzzy logic, a (calculated) value of 0.8 or 0.971 is possible. It is important to know the difference between fuzzy logic and chance. A coin that is thrown has a chance of 0.5 for landing heads up. If it is thrown 1000 times, it is expected that it will land with heads side up 500 times. With fuzzy logic, a thing with a "truth value" of 0.5 will have a value of 0.5 no matter how many times it is done. It is not a 50% chance of true or untrue, it is 50% true and 50% untrue at the same time.
Fuzzy logic is used a lot in expert systems and neural networks.
Humans tend to use a combination of predicate logic and fuzzy logic. If you are an outfielder catching a baseball hit into the air; then your precise logic will calculate trajectory and start you running to the point of intercept (catching). However, once close to the ball the eyes and brain of the outfielder lacks the ability to accurately estimate distance and speed because the ball is coming straight at the outfielder. The human brain switches to fuzzy logic that says "get me closer", "get me closer", and so on. That is why you see outfielders in baseball run to a spot and then move around as the ball gets closer.
Predicate logic says calculate the point to be at to catch the ball. Fuzzy logic says because of wind or other things you might not be in the correct place so just keep getting closer until you catch the ball. 
In predicate logic it is the mathematics of calculating the path of the ball that determines your action. In fuzzy logic it is the error of your calculations that determines your action.
In effect, it's like your brain trying to control your finger to pick your nose while traveling down a bumpy road.

</doc>
<doc id="19981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19981" title="Douala">
Douala

Douala is the largest city in the African country of Cameroon. It is the capital city of Littoral Province.
The city is placed near the Wouri River. Its population is about 2,000,000 people. The first European people who came to Douala were from Portugal. They found Duala in about 1472. Before 1884 it was named Cameroons Town. In 1884 German people came to Duala and changed its name to Kamarunstadt ("Camaroon City") and made it the capital of German Kamerun. In 1907 its name was changed to Duala. It became the capital of French Cameroons in 1919. From 1940 to 1946, it was the capital of Cameroon.
Duala is an expensive city. It ranked 24th most expensive city of the world in 2007.
Douala is linked by rail to Yaoundé, Ngaoundéré, Kumba and Nkongsamba. The largest port and the most important airport in Cameron are both in Douala.

</doc>
<doc id="19982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19982" title="1843">
1843


</doc>
<doc id="19983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19983" title="1225">
1225


</doc>
<doc id="19987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19987" title="841">
841


</doc>
<doc id="19988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19988" title="1164">
1164


</doc>
<doc id="19989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19989" title="578">
578


</doc>
<doc id="19992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19992" title="1707">
1707


</doc>
<doc id="19994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19994" title="1031">
1031


</doc>
<doc id="19995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19995" title="1083">
1083


</doc>
<doc id="19996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19996" title="1027">
1027

1027 (MXXVII) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-seventh year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19997" title="1316">
1316


</doc>
<doc id="19999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19999" title="1778">
1778


</doc>
<doc id="20000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20000" title="885">
885


</doc>
<doc id="20002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20002" title="1751">
1751


</doc>
<doc id="20003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20003" title="250">
250


</doc>
<doc id="20004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004" title="1802">
1802


</doc>
<doc id="20005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20005" title="37">
37

37 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Proculus and Pontius.

</doc>
<doc id="20006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20006" title="1584">
1584


</doc>
<doc id="20007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20007" title="193">
193


</doc>
<doc id="20008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20008" title="1243">
1243

1243 was a year in the 13th century

</doc>
<doc id="20009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20009" title="Category:Social sciences">
Category:Social sciences


</doc>
<doc id="20010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20010" title="1541">
1541


</doc>
<doc id="20011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20011" title="1354">
1354


</doc>
<doc id="20012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20012" title="1286">
1286


</doc>
<doc id="20013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20013" title="1129">
1129


</doc>
<doc id="20014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20014" title="1082">
1082


</doc>
<doc id="20015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20015" title="1135">
1135


</doc>
<doc id="20016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20016" title="1052">
1052

The year "1052" was a leap year which started on Wednesday.

</doc>
<doc id="20017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20017" title="1761">
1761


</doc>
<doc id="20018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20018" title="1470s">
1470s

The 1470s was the decade that started on January 1, 1470 and ended on December 31, 1479.

</doc>
<doc id="20019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20019" title="1476">
1476


</doc>
<doc id="20023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20023" title="Nursing">
Nursing

Nursing is a job focused on helping people's health.
In Greece, hundreds of years ago, sick people went to temples, where men and women helped them. They made medicines from flowers and other things. In the fifth century BC, about 2400 years ago, one of the Greeks, Hippocrates, was very interested about why people became ill. He wrote over 70 books, and was one of the first people in the world to study healthcare. This is why he is often called the "father of Western medicine".
Religion was also important in the history of nursing. Jesus Christ taught that sick people should be helped. In the Middle Ages, the Christian church opened more hospitals. The Muslims opened some in Baghdad and Damascus too. Muslim hospitals helped people from any country or religion.

</doc>
<doc id="20025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20025" title="Gleiwitz incident">
Gleiwitz incident

The Gleiwitz incident was a planned German attack against the radio station "Sender Gleiwitz" in the German town of Gliwice on the night of August 31, 1939. This attack along with other Nazi activities was used to make people think that Poland attacked Germany and that Poland, not Germany started World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="20027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20027" title="Category:Cameroon">
Category:Cameroon


</doc>
<doc id="20028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028" title="Free">
Free

Free may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20029" title="Mackinac Island">
Mackinac Island

Mackinac Island is an island in Lake Huron. It is part of the U.S. state of Michigan and is 8 miles (13 kilometers) around.
Many people go to see Mackinac Island in the summer because the island passed a local law that says that no one can use a car on the island. Everybody has to ride a horse or a bicycle. In recent years, young people have been using roller skates or roller blades to get around the island. There is a narrow paved road that follows the 8 miles of shoreline. This road is for horses (and their buggies), bicycles, skaters and joggers or just people taking a long walk. 
In order to get to Mackinac Island, visitors have to buy a ticket on a ferry boat. The boat ride has views of Lake Huron and the Mackinac Bridge. After they get to Mackinac Island, many visitors buy locally made fudge. 

</doc>
<doc id="20031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20031" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Stars is a list of the top actors in Hollywood history. It was announced by the American Film Institute on June 16, 1999.
The list promised one hundred people on it, but in the end there were only fifty.
As of 2013, of the fifty stars listed, only three are still alive: two men (Sidney Poitier and Kirk Douglas), and one woman (Sophia Loren). At the time the list was unveiled Katharine Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, Shirley Temple, Lauren Bacall, Marlon Brando, and Gregory Peck were also still living.

</doc>
<doc id="20032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20032" title="Havana">
Havana

Havana is the capital city of Cuba. Its population was 2.1 million in 2012. It is at 23°8′N 82°23′W and is a little more than 100 miles south-southwest of Key West, Florida in the United States.
Havana is a very old city. It was created in 1515 by Spanish explorers.

</doc>
<doc id="20034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20034" title="Bismarck">
Bismarck

Bismarck is a German family name. Bismark is an incorrect spelling.
The name Bismarck is usually associated with the famous Otto von Bismarck, a German statesman of the 19th century.
The "Bismarck" was a battleship of the German navy during WWII

</doc>
<doc id="20039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20039" title="Crusinallo">
Crusinallo

Crusinallo, with 4000 people, is the most populated district of the town of Omegna (in the Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, in Piedmont, Italy). It was an independent town until 1928. The town of Crusinallo is located in the north part of the town of Omegna, at the border with the towns of Casale Corte Cerro, Gravellona Toce, and Germagno. The natural borders are: at north, the Saint Martino river; at east and south, the Strona river; at west, the forest of Alpe Colla.

</doc>
<doc id="20040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20040" title="1752">
1752


</doc>
<doc id="20042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20042" title="660s BC">
660s BC


</doc>
<doc id="20043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20043" title="1496">
1496


</doc>
<doc id="20044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20044" title="1543">
1543


</doc>
<doc id="20046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20046" title="1071">
1071


</doc>
<doc id="20047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20047" title="1278">
1278


</doc>
<doc id="20053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20053" title="People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals">
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA ) is the world's largest non-profit organisation about animal rights. The four main beliefs of PETA are that animals are not to be used for food, clothes, exploitation or testing. The headquarters of the organization is in Norfolk, Virginia in the United States. PETA was started by Ingrid Newkirk and Alex Pacheco in 1980.
PETA has protested fast food chain KFC for the way it kills chickens. In the past, it has protested many corporations including Iams, which makes pet food. 
PETA's main website is made for adults and vegans. They also have another website called PETA2 which is made for teenagers who are vegetarian, vegan or still deciding. PETA says it has over five million members.

</doc>
<doc id="20057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20057" title="Software licence">
Software licence

A software licence (or software license in United States English) is a kind of licence that is used to set rules about how a piece of software can or cannot be used. After getting the software by either downloading it or buying it, you need to agree with the licence in order to use it. The licence is chosen or created by the software developer/creator or software publisher. Many licences answer questions such as "can I use this software commercially/to make money?", or "can I give this software to other people?", or in general, "in what ways am I allowed/permitted to use this software?".
One kind of software licence, an end user licence agreement, or "EULA", is very specific/descriptive about the things that you can or cannot do with the software, and oftentimes establishes/defines the rights of the software developer over the user. Most EULAs are written by the specific software developer and are not shared like other software licences.
Another type of software licence is an open source distribution licence. These licences let software developers choose what people can and cannot do with the code of the software. There are many licences freely available which allow you to do this, such as the MIT Licence, which allows for the software to be used by any person for any reason/purpose. The GNU General Public Licence, often abbreviated/shortened as GPL is a licence which makes all copies of the software free and open source. Therefore, GPL cannot be included in any part of proprietary/closed software because it does not follow the rules of the licence. The Apache Licence is more definitive and specific, but is more common with larger companies, such as Google, but is still considered a free software licence. Creative Commons is a popular licence used by people who want to give something out for free without taking as much credit. Creative Commons is very open, and is even used by Wikipedia for its pages and other content.

</doc>
<doc id="20060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20060" title="BSD licence">
BSD licence

The BSD licence is named after the group that first used the licence, the University of California, Berkeley, where the BSD operating system was first made. Since they are in the United States, BSD uses the U.S. spelling "BSD license".
The words of the BSD licence are public domain and can be changed however people want. To be useful for people or groups, people need to change 'Regents of the University of California', 'University of California, Berkeley', and 'Regents' to their name. A basic BSD licence looks like this:
This means that people who use the licensed software can do anything with it, except say it is all their work or say that the people who made it first support the new software in any way. It also stops people from suing the first makers if something goes wrong with it.

</doc>
<doc id="20061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20061" title="Category:Software licences">
Category:Software licences

These are software licences.

</doc>
<doc id="20074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20074" title="1786">
1786


</doc>
<doc id="20075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20075" title="1688">
1688

Year 1688 was a leap year that started on a Thursday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20076" title="1728">
1728


</doc>
<doc id="20077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20077" title="1614">
1614


</doc>
<doc id="20078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20078" title="1588">
1588


</doc>
<doc id="20079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20079" title="1012">
1012


</doc>
<doc id="20080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20080" title="1746">
1746


</doc>
<doc id="20081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20081" title="1734">
1734


</doc>
<doc id="20082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20082" title="1682">
1682

Year 1682 was a common year that started on a Thursday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20084" title="222">
222


</doc>
<doc id="20085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20085" title="1759">
1759


</doc>
<doc id="20086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20086" title="1755">
1755


</doc>
<doc id="20087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20087" title="477">
477


</doc>
<doc id="20088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20088" title="509">
509


</doc>
<doc id="20089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089" title="571">
571


</doc>
<doc id="20090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20090" title="609">
609


</doc>
<doc id="20092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20092" title="Lake Baikal">
Lake Baikal

Lake Baikal is a huge lake in Siberia, Russia. It is the biggest fresh water reservoir in the world. The lake is near Irkutsk. 
Baikal is about long. It is wide. At its deepest point, it is deep. With this depth it is the deepest lake on Earth. The lake is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It holds about 20% of the world's unfrozen surface fresh water,
The lake has fish that exist only here and nowhere else. It is home to more than 1,700 species of plants and animals, two-thirds of which can be found nowhere else in the world.
Lake Baikal fills an ancient rift valley, just as Lake Tanganyika does in East Africa. 
At the Baikal Rift Zone, the Earth's crust pulls apart. It is the deepest lake in the world at . The bottom of the lake is below sea level, but below this lies some of sediment. This means the rift floor is below the surface: the deepest continental rift on Earth. 
In geological terms, the rift is young and active it widens about two cm per year. The fault zone is also seismically active; there are hot springs in the area and notable earthquakes every few years. 
Baikal's age is 25–30 million years: it is one of the oldest lakes. It is unique among large, high-latitude lakes, because its sediments have not been scoured by overriding continental ice sheets. U.S. and Russian studies of core sediment in the 1990s gave a detailed record of climatic variation over the past 250,000 years. Longer and deeper sediment cores are expected soon. Lake Baikal is the only confined freshwater lake in which evidence of gas hydrates exists.
The lake is completely surrounded by mountains. The Baikal Mountains on the north shore and the taiga are protected as a national park. It has 27 islands; the largest, Olkhon, is long and is the third-largest lake-bound island in the world. The lake is fed by as many as 330 inflowing rivers. It is drained through a single outlet, the Angara River.
Despite its great depth, the lake's waters are well-mixed and well-oxygenated throughout the water column, compared to the stratification that occurs in such bodies of water as Lake Tanganyika and the Black Sea.
Lake Baikal has over 1000 species of plants and 1550 species and varieties of animals. Over 60% of animals are endemic; that means of 52 species of fish 27 are endemic.
The omul fish ("Coregonus autumnalis migratorius") is local to Lake Baikal. It is fished, smoked, and sold on all markets around the lake. For many travellers on the Trans-Siberian railway, purchasing smoked omul is one of the highlights of the long journey.
Baikal also hosts a species of seals, Baikal seal or "nerpa".
Bears and deer can be watched and hunted by Baikal coasts.
In 1986, Baikalskyi and Barguzinskyi became Biosphere Reserves. The ecosystems are part of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme.

</doc>
<doc id="20094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20094" title="Omul">
Omul

The omul is a kind of fish. It belongs to the same family as the trout and the salmon. It only lives in Lake Baikal and the rivers around it (the Angara for example. It is very typical for that region of Siberia).

</doc>
<doc id="20095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20095" title="Salmon">
Salmon

Salmon is a kind of teleost fish. There are many different kinds of salmon. Salmon belong to the same family of fish as the trout. Most kinds of salmon live in salt water, or migrate between rivers and the sea. Many people like to eat salmon, so the fish is also grown in fish farms. Usual ways to make food out of salmon are smoking, cold smoking and graving. Salmon are killed by people, other fish and their environment.

</doc>
<doc id="20096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20096" title="Wild turkey">
Wild turkey

The wild turkey ("Meleagris gallopavo") is the name of the more common of the two species of turkey. This large bird is found across much of the United States and southern Canada.
Wild turkeys prefer hardwood and mixed conifer-hardwood forests with scattered openings such as pastures, fields, orchards and seasonal marshes. They can adapt to any dense plant community so long as there is cover and openings to fly out. Open, mature forests with a variety of tree species seem to be best. 
The "domesticated turkey" has been tamed and bred from wild turkeys, by people, to raise on farms.

</doc>
<doc id="20097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20097" title="Ocellated Turkey">
Ocellated Turkey

An Ocellated Turkey ("Meleagris ocellata") is a turkey (a large bird) that is named for the eye-like spots on the tail feathers ("ocellated" means having eye-like spots). It is similar to the Wild Turkey that is found more to the north in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="20104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20104" title="Natalia">
Natalia

Natalia may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20110" title="Drenthe">
Drenthe

Drenthe (pronounce: "DREN-te") is a province in the northeast of the Netherlands. The capital city is Assen. South of it is Overijssel, west of it is Friesland and north of it is Groningen. East of it is Lower Saxony, that is a part of Germany.
Thousands of years ago, there were already people in Drenthe. Around 3500 BC people made dolmens ("hunebedden"), piles of big stones. 53 of the 54 dolmens in the Netherlands are in Drenthe. Most of them are in the northeast of the province.
The oldest paper with the name Drenthe on it is from 820. It was called "Pago Treanth" (district Drenthe). Papers from 1024 and 1025 show that is was a county at that time. 
From 1046 until 1528, the bishops of Utrecht ruled over Drenthe. From 1581 until 1795 it was part of the Republic of the Seven United Provinces, but Drenthe itself was not a province. In 1796, under the Batavian Republic, Drenthe was a province for the first time.
In the Second World War, the nazis build a concentration camp near Westerbork. From there, they put Dutch Jews on the train to other camps in Germany and Poland. In the last train from Westerbork was also Anne Frank. She was a Jewish girl and she wrote a diary. She died in the concentration camp Bergen-Belsen in Germany. After the war her diary became world famous.
Location of the municipalities of Drenthe.
The most important cities are Assen (the capital), Emmen, Meppel and Hoogeveen. In Drenthe there is many heathland.
In Drenthe many people speak Low Saxon dialects. The dialects in Drenthe are called "Drents". These dialects are different in each town or village.

</doc>
<doc id="20111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20111" title="D-Day">
D-Day

D-Day is a term used in military planning to mean the actual day a major operation or event is to begin. The days leading up to a D-Day are called D-1, D-2, D-3, and so on. The days after a D-Day are D+1, D+2, D+3, and so on. Several different events in military history were called D-Day such as the Invasion of Normandy (Operation Overlord). 
The most famous D-Day was June 6, 1944 when the biggest naval attack in military history took place, in France during World War II when allied forces crossed over the English Channel from England to the French coast specifically the Normandy Coastline. This attack was code named "Operation Overlord", led by American General Dwight Eisenhower in reply to the failed Dieppe Raid in 1942. The Allies (Britain, Canada, and America in this case) liberated France, which was occupied by Germany. The allied forces won the battle, a turning point in World War II, though over 3,500 men were lost while attacking the beaches and by going behind enemy lines. Almost a year later, Nazi Germany surrendered to the Allies. Even-though the D-Day was planned for months it almost got cancelled due to bad weather.

</doc>
<doc id="20112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20112" title="655">
655


</doc>
<doc id="20114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20114" title="Ishpeming, Michigan">
Ishpeming, Michigan

Ishpeming is a city in Marquette County, Michigan, USA. As of the 2000 census, the city had a total of 6,686 people living in it. There used to be more people in the 1950s and 1960s, when the iron ore mines were in full operation. 
The city has a total area of 24.0 km² (9.2 mi²). 22.5 km² (8.7 mi²) of it is land and 1.5 km² (0.6 mi²) of it (6.16%) is water. Ishpeming is 1436 feet above sea level.
The movie "Anatomy of a Murder" was filmed in Ishpeming and areas around it in 1959.
Ishpeming was also the birthplace of aviation engineer Clarence "Kelly" Johnson in 1910 and Nobel prize winning chemist Glenn T. Seaborg in 1912.
Ishpeming is considered the birthplace of downhill ski jumping in the United States and is the home to the National Ski Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="20115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20115" title="Humphrey Bogart">
Humphrey Bogart

Humphrey Bogart (December 25, 1899 - January 14, 1957) was an American actor who starred in seventy-five movies. These include Black Legion, High Sierra, "The Maltese Falcon" (1941), "Casablanca" (1942) and "The African Queen" (1951). His last movie was "The Harder They Fall". 

</doc>
<doc id="20116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20116" title="Funk">
Funk

Funk is a type of music from the United States that was developed the 1960s by African American musicians and singers such as James Brown, Sly and the Family Stone, George Clinton, and The Meters. Funk music emphasizes the rhythm of the music. Funk music mixes Rhythm and Blues music with soul music. Funk music is dance music.
Funk uses many rhythm instruments, such as electric guitar, bass guitar, drums, and electric organ. Funk bands also have a horn section, which includes several saxophone players, a trumpet player, and in some bands, trombone players.
In funk music, the electric bass has a more important role than in other styles of popular music. Many funk songs are based on a strong bass line (melody) played by the electric bass player. Well-known funk bass players include Bootsy Collins, Louis Johnson and Larry Graham of Sly & the Family Stone. Larry Graham invented a new style of electric bass playing called "slap bass technique." With this technique, the bass player slaps and plucks the strings to create a strong rhythm.
The United States singer and musician James Brown was one of the first funk musicians. James Brown recorded a song in 1965 called "papa's got a brand new bag" which is considered the first funk song. Other musical groups copied the rhythms and musical style developed by James Brown and his band. A band called The Meters played funk music in New Orleans. The Meters had hit songs such as "Sophisticated Cissy" and "Cissy Strut" in 1969. Another funk group, The Isley Brothers, had a hit song in 1969 called "It's Your Thing".
In the 1980s, funk music changed. Funk musicians began using electronic instruments such as synthesizer keyboards and electronic drum machines instead of electric bass, electric organ, trumpets, saxophones, and drums. Rick James had hits in the 1980s with funk songs such as "Give It To Me Baby" and "Super Freak." The band Queen had funk songs such as "Another One Bites The Dust." The musician and singer Prince had hit songs.
Some major names of early 80s funk include: Cameo, Zapp, The Gap Band, The Bar-Kays, and The Dazz Band.
In the later 1980s, two new styles of funk developed called "funk rock" and funk metal. These styles of music mixed funk music with rock and metal music. Funk rock and funk metal bands include Red Hot Chili Peppers, Living Colour, Jane's Addiction, Prince, Primus, Fishbone, Faith No More and Rage Against the Machine.
Funk music influenced 1980s hip hop music. Many hip hop musicians use funk songs by James Brown or George Clinton to compose new hip hop songs.
In the 1990s and 2000s, funk rock bands included Outkast, and Van Hunt. As well, 1990s and 2000s hip hop musicians continue to use funk songs by James Brown or George Clinton to compose new hip hop songs.

</doc>
<doc id="20117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20117" title="1513">
1513

1513 was a year of the Gregorian calendar, that started on a Wednesday.

</doc>
<doc id="20118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20118" title="Great white shark">
Great white shark

The great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) is a species of shark. They are world's largest living predatory fish. Mature sharks may grow up to in length and in weight). There also have been a few reports of great white sharks measuring over . This shark reaches its sexual maturity around 15 years of age. The lifespan of great white shark may be as long as 70 years or more. Great white sharks can accelerate to speeds over .
Great white sharks have about 300 teeth, arranged in many rows. The first two rows of the teeth are used for grabbing and cutting the animals they eat, while the other teeth in the last rows replace the front teeth when they are broken, worn down, or when they fall out. The teeth have the shape of a triangle with jags on the edges. Great white sharks eat fish and other animals, for example seals and sea lions.
The great white shark has no natural predators other than the Orca. Some orcas have discovered they can paralyse the shark by flipping it upside-down. Then they hold the shark still with their mouth, and that suffocates it (sharks get oxygen by moving through the water). That aside, they are apex predators of marine mammals. 
The bestselling novel "Jaws" by Peter Benchley and the film by Steven Spielberg show the great white shark as a "ferocious human eater". In real life, humans are not the preferred food of the great white shark. However, of all shark species, the great white shark has the largest number of fatal unprovoked attacks on humans.
The great white shark is a shark. A shark is a type of cartilaginous fish. The back of the shark has a grey color and the underside is colored white. The sharks have three main fins: the dorsal (on back) and two pectoral fins (on the sides). There are five gill slits on great white sharks. Great white sharks have rows of teeth behind the main ones. When one of the main teeth break off, there are teeth always ready to replace it. The great white shark shakes its head side-to-side when it bites. This helps the teeth cut off large chunks of flesh. The great white becomes an adult about nine years after its birth. The growth of the great white shark is about 25-30 centimetres per year and they grow to an average size of 4.5 meters. The largest can be as much as 6.4 meters in length. Their liver can weigh up to about 24 percent of it's own body weight.
Adults on average are long and have a mass of . Females are generally larger than males. The great white shark can reach in length and in weight. Among living cartilaginous fish, only the whale shark ("Rhincodon typus"), the basking shark ("Cetorhinus maximus") and the giant manta ray ("Manta birostris"), are larger and heavier. These three species are generally quite gentle and filter feed on very small organisms.
Great white sharks live in the sea. They live near the coast, in all warm waters. They occasionally make dives into the deep water of open oceans. They can be in water as shallow as three feet deep, and as deep as 1,280 metres.
They may swim near:
Research has shown that the sharks of northern California are genetically different to other shark populations. DNA evidence shows the population separated from other great whites about 200,000 years ago (during the Pleistocene Era). By tagging the sharks they also learned that they are generally alone, but follow the same route through the ocean, and stay in the same places. From January to July they live near Hawaii, and then move to Californian waters between August and December.
Sometimes, sharks attack human beings. When sharks see a new object, for example, a surfboard, they bite it to know what kind of object it might be. Sometimes, sharks see the shadow of surfers and attack them because they think they are seals.
Some people think that humans are not good food for great white sharks, because the sharks' digestion might be too slow to cope with the human body's high ratio of bone to muscle and fat. It might be argued that because of this nearly all attacks by great whites do not continue after the first bite. 
Sharks are opportunistic predators. This means that they are not very picky on what they feed on. This behaviour has been observed when the animals completely consumed piecemeal bait. The explanation given is that the tactics generally involve biting prey once, so that the prey bleeds to death before the shark moves in to feed. Other large mammals, such as seals and dolphins also seem to have this tactic, as it minimizes the risk of the predator injuring itself. In most cases, humans tend to escape quickly after the first bite so that they are not consumed, simply bitten. Deaths in such cases are generally caused by loss of blood from the first wound. In cases where attacks have occurred and the victim has been unable to escape quickly, partial or whole consumption has occurred; lone divers are especially at risk of this. Most attacks also seem to occur in waters where it is hard to see or where the shark is confused, but this is unlikely given that the shark is in its natural hunting environment with highly developed senses.

</doc>
<doc id="20119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20119" title="1560">
1560


</doc>
<doc id="20122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20122" title="Cary Grant">
Cary Grant

Cary Grant (January 18, 1904 - November 29, 1986), born as Archibald Alexander Leach in Bristol, United Kingdom, was an actor in the United States.. He starred in many movies, including 1959's "North by Northwest". 
Grant became an American citizen in 1942. At that time, he legally changed his name to "Cary Grant."
Grant died of a cerebral hemorrhage (a bleed in his brain) in Davenport, Iowa, United States. He was cremated and his ashes were scattered.

</doc>
<doc id="20124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20124" title="Emotion">
Emotion

Emotions are what people feel. In terms of evolution, they are very ancient, and can be seen in all mammals. 
Emotions are caused by a complex mixture of hormones and the unconscious mind. Only with great difficulty can we control our emotions by conscious effort. They cause mammals to change behaviour according to changes in their situation. In our case they sometimes run against our attempt to live our lives in a logical way.
A scientific definition is not simple;over 90 definitions have been offered by experts. A definition of emotion needs to includes three things:
Here is one definition:
In physical terms, emotions involve body systems which have operated for hundreds of millions of years. These are the hormone system, the autonomic nervous system and the 'lower' brain centres (hindbrain and midbrain).
The study of emotions became one of Darwin's books after "The Descent of Man". He published "The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals" in 1873. He had discovered, by sending letters and a list of questions worldwide, that in different societies emotions were expressed in almost the same way. 
If so, the mechanisms which made the expressions must be inherited. They must have been developed in the same way as all other features of man, evolution by natural selection. It was already known from anatomy that the muscles and nerves of the face were the same or similar in all humans. 
Darwin illustrated the expression of the emotions with a series of photographs and woodcut illustrations. Ekman did the same thing on a research visit to New Guinea, where he asked villagers to identify the emotions shown in the photographs. This was part of a long-term effort to test and extend Darwin's insights into emotions. Some of Ekman's conclusions are: 

</doc>
<doc id="20135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20135" title="Dyslexia">
Dyslexia

Dyslexia is a very common problem and has an effect on the way our brain understands words. The most common signs of dyslexia are reading and writing problems. Estimates are that in the United States between five and nine percent of schoolchildren have dyslexia, though estimates go as high as fifty percent. 
A person can have dyslexia even if he or she is very smart or educated. Recent studies show that there are many small business owners that have dyslexia; between 35 and 50 percent of U.S. and British entrepreneurs are affected. Researchers think that many dyslexic entrepreneurs are successful because they can delegate responsibilities (of writing letters) and still be good at speaking. 
At the end of the 20th century, scientists did a lot of research about dyslexia and found some of the reasons that people are dyslexic. A professor who did research in the 1980s and 1990s looked at the brains of dyslexic people who had died. He found that some parts of the brain were not connected very well, and that this happened during the fourth month of pregnancy. This problem has a big effect on the left half of the brain. The newest research shows that three genes are the reason for dyslexia. 
One thing that causes dyslexia is a problem with the central hearing nerve. This problem can not be found with a normal hearing test, so a special doctor has to do special tests to find it. It means that people with heavy dyslexia are sensitive to loud noise, may have problems speaking, and may not be able to concentrate. It may also cause problems with rhythm and melody of music.
Many people who have dyslexia also have other mental disorders, especially attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.
In order to tell if a child has dyslexia, he or she has to be seen by a doctor. A child can be called dyslexic if he or she cannot read or write well and there is no other reason for the problem. Doctors are trying to create early tests to help find out whether a child has dyslexia before they are old enough to go to school. If this happens, a child can start to be treated very early, and they may have fewer problems at school. Many well-known people have dyslexia, including: Stephen Hawking, Jamie Oliver, Whoopi Goldberg, Ozzy Osbourne, Keira Knightley, Susan Hampshire, Orlando Bloom, Keanu Reeves, Richard Branson, Henry Winkler, Patrick Dempsey, Albert Einstein, and Tom Cruise. These people though continue to thrive with their work.
Children with dyslexia can be helped. One way teachers help dyslexic students is to break words into different sounds. The student must learn how to write the different sounds and create words. This helps with reading and writing. Some people believe that dyslexic children can read and write better if they put pieces of colored paper on top of what they are reading.

</doc>
<doc id="20144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20144" title="AK-47">
AK-47

The AK-47 is a Russian assault rifle designed in 1947 by Mikhail Kalashnikov and first used in 1949. It and an updated version called the AKM were used by the Soviet Union's Military (which was called the Soviet Army). It was later replaced by the AK-74. The AK-47 quickly became famous and spread all around the world because it was simple to fire, clean and maintain, and also because of its reliability, meaning that it can be used a long time without jamming. The AK-47 and its successors continue to be used by many of the world's armies. Many terrorist and insurgent groups also use the AK-47. It is a cheap, reliable, and easy-to-use weapon. The AK-47 was also available with a folding stock, the AKS-47, and a shortened version with the AKS74 folding stock, the AKMSU (used by armoured vehicle crews), although this was soon replaced by the AKS74U, which fires the 5.45 cartridge of the AK-74. There was also a light machine gun variant with a longer barrel and different shaped stock called the RPK. 
The AK-47 uses Gas-operated reloading. When the bullet is moved down the barrel, a little bit of the gas behind the bullet is made to go up a small tube that pushes away the bolt. This is special because the person who is shooting the gun does not have to reload with their hand every time that they want to shoot - the gun reloads by itself. When you pull the trigger, the chambered bullet fires. You then release and then pull the trigger again to fire another round. This is called .
The AK-47 used many simple ideas that were first invented for the German Sturmgewehr-44 WW2 assault rifle. The AK-47 is a common gun used by many groups because it is so cheap and available. One of the reasons it is so common is that the Soviets left many behind when they left Afghanistan in 1989 after invading it in 1979. The letters AK stand for Avtomat Kalashnikova, which is Russian for Kalashnikov's Automatic Rifle. It shoots the Soviet 7.62x39mm cartridge. It is only accurate up to 300 meters, and beyond that range the bullet starts to tumble and drop. However, this is what Mikhail Kalashnikov intended, since most firefights (fights fought using guns) in WWII happened within 300 m. He wanted a weapon that was useful within that kind of range, since bolt-action rifles, despite having longer effective ranges (range where the gun is accurate), were too slow-firing and too big to be a good weapon in close-quarters combat (fighting that happens in tight spaces).

</doc>
<doc id="20152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20152" title="1763">
1763


</doc>
<doc id="20154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20154" title="1637">
1637


</doc>
<doc id="20155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20155" title="1451">
1451


</doc>
<doc id="20156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20156" title="146">
146


</doc>
<doc id="20157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20157" title="Colima">
Colima

Colima is a state in west Mexico. About 760,000 people live there. Its capital is also called Colima.

</doc>
<doc id="20172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20172" title="Erzsébet Báthory">
Erzsébet Báthory

Erzsébet Báthory (Elizabeth Bathory in English; (7 August 1560 – 21 August 1614), was a countess in what is now Transylvania.
She is the most famous serial killer in Slovak and Hungarian history. She was accused of torturing and killing many girls and young women. It is unknown how many women she killed. Her diary supposedly says that there were 650 people that she killed, but there may have been more or less.
She was born in present-day Hungary on August 7, 1560 and died on August 21, 1614 in Čachtice (Hungarian: Csejte) in present-day Slovakia.
She spent her childhood at the Ecsed Castle. At the age of 11, she was forced to be engaged with the fighter Francis Nádasdy. In 1575, she married Nádasdy. In 1578, he became the chief commander of Hungarian troops in their war against the Turks. He was known as a very brave, but also very cruel person.
Nádasdy’s wedding gift to Elizabeth was his home, the Čachtice Castle (situated in the Carpathians in present-day western Slovakia near Trenčín, then part of the Kingdom of Hungary) along with the Čachtice country-house and seventeen nearby towns. The castle itself was surrounded by a peasant village and rolling hills. In 1602, Elizabeth’s husband bought the castle from the emperor Rudolf II, so that it became a property of the Nádasdys. Since battles with the Turks kept her husband away from the castle, Elizabeth became the lady of the castle. It is rare, but not unheard, for historians to claim her husband was ignorant of her crimes. 
Elizabeth had six children; however, two of them died at an early age:
Her husband died in 1602. Her guilt is disputed by some, such as Lazlo Nagy, who says she was victim of a government/church plot. The King of Hungary, it has been pointed out, owed her money. And Count Gyorgy Thurzo, the person who brought her to trial, also stood to gain from downfall, her estates would belong to him in that event. 
In 2008 a movie was made about her called "Bathory" starring Anna Friel. It differs from others in that it takes the stance that she was innocent of the charge of being a serial killer, although she is still portrayed as being cruel. 

</doc>
<doc id="20176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20176" title="Peter Jackson">
Peter Jackson

Sir Peter Jackson (born 31 October 1961, Wellington, New Zealand) is a movie director. He is most widely known for directing "The Lord of the Rings" film trilogy. He is also the director of "King Kong".
In 2003, Jackson won three Academy Awards for "": Academy Award for Directing, Academy Award for Best Picture and Academy Award for Writing Adapted Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="20179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20179" title="Category:BSD">
Category:BSD

Software, operating systems and topics which are related to BSD.

</doc>
<doc id="20181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20181" title="Category:Operating systems">
Category:Operating systems


</doc>
<doc id="20182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20182" title="Valencia">
Valencia

Valencia is a city in Spain, on the Mediterranean coast. It is the capital of the Community of Valencia. It has 807,396 people, making it the third-largest city in Spain and the fifteenth in the European Union. 
Valencia's climate is on the boundary of hot semi-arid ("Bsh" in the Koeppen climate classification) and hot-summer Mediterranean ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="20184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184" title="Murcia">
Murcia

Murcia is the capital of the autonomous community of Murcia, in Spain, and its biggest city, with a population of 410,000 in the city and more than 740,000 in the metropolitan area. The municipality is the seventh largest in Spain. 
The city is in the Segura Valley, in an area called la "Huerta de Murcia", which is a very important agricultural center with oranges, lemons, tomatoes, onions, etc.; the varied fruits and vegetables typical of the Mediterranean lands. It has a hot semi-arid climate ("BSh" in the Koeppen climate classification). The city has a Baroque cathedral and a university.

</doc>
<doc id="20185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20185" title="Zaragoza">
Zaragoza

Zaragoza (sometimes called Saragossa in English) is the capital of Aragon, in the Ebro Valley, in the crossroad from Barcelona, Valencia, Madrid, and Bilbao. The population is 643,000. The most important monument is the Nuestra Señora del Pilar ("Basilica of Our Lady of the Pillar").
Zaragoza has a semi-arid climate (BSh in the Köppen climate classification) with hot summers and cool winters.

</doc>
<doc id="20186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20186" title="Malaga">
Malaga

Málaga is a Spanish city in Andalusia, on the Mediterranean coast. The city has 560,000 people. There are more than 1,000,000 people in the surrounding area. It is the second biggest city in Andalusia after Sevilla, and the sixth biggest in Spain. The 20th century artist Pablo Picasso was born in Málaga.
Málaga is southernmost large city in Europe, it lies on the Costa del Sol (Coast of the Sun) of the Mediterranean, about 100 km (62.14 mi) east of the Strait of Gibraltar and about 130 km (80.78 mi) north of Africa.
Málaga enjoys a subtropical–mediterranean climate. It has one of the warmest winters in Europe, with average temperatures of 17 °C (62.6 °F) during the day and 7–8 °C (45–46 °F) at night in the period from December through February.

</doc>
<doc id="20187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20187" title="Las Palmas de Gran Canaria">
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria

Las Palmas de Gran Canaria is the biggest city of the Canary Islands, in the Atlantic Ocean. The city, with a population of 383,308 in 2010, is the eighth-largest in Spain. 
Together with Santa Cruz de Tenerife, it is the capital of the Comunidad Autónoma de
Canarias (Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands). It is also the capital of the island of Gran Canaria and of the province of Las Palmas. The islands of this province are Gran Canaria, Lanzarote and Fuerteventura.
The city was founded in 1478. The town has a beautiful old area. This area (Vegueta) has a lot of houses from the 16th to the 19th Centuries. There is still a house where Christopher Columbus stayed in 1492. He stayed there before he discovered the Americas. The interesting cathedral was begun in the year 1500.
Its port is one of the busiest in Spain and the biggest between Europe and Cape Town, in South Africa.
Las Palmas (for short) is famous for its very nice and dry weather all year round. It is also famous for its Las Canteras Beach. This beach is more than 3 kilometers long. The beach brings a lot of tourists to the city. 
Main industries: trade, tourism, canned food, fishing, shipbuilding.
Places to visit: "Vegueta" (old area);" Triana" (traditional commercial area); "Playa de Las Canteras" (Las Canteras Beach); cathedral; "Casa de Colón" (Columbus House); "Museo Canario" (archaeology museum); "CAAM - Centro Atlántico de Arte Moderno" (Modern Art Centre); "Museo Élder de la Ciencia" (science museum); "Museo Néstor" (museum with paintings); "Teatro Pérez Galdós" (theatre); "Auditorio Alfredo Kraus" (concert hall); "Jardín Canario" (Canary Garden, mostly with plants from the Canary Islands); Doramas Park.

</doc>
<doc id="20189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20189" title="Palma de Mallorca">
Palma de Mallorca

Palma de Mallorca is the capital of the Balearic Islands and the Mallorca island, in the Mediterranean Sea, in front of the Iberian Peninsula. The city, with a population of 410,000, is the ninth-largest of Spain. It is a very important tourist center in the world, and is very popular for its sausages and llamas.

</doc>
<doc id="20190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20190" title="Córdoba, Andalusia">
Córdoba, Andalusia

Córdoba is a city in Andalusia, Spain. It is the capital of Córdoba province. It has a population of 321,000.
Córdoba was the capital of the Caliphate of Cordoba, an Islamic empire in the Middle Ages, when the city was the biggest in Europe, with 250,000 people.
Córdoba is 138 kilometers (86 miles) northeast of the city of Seville and is on the Guadalquivir river. Córdoba has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Köppen climate classification) with the hottest summers of all European cities.
The Romans occupied Córdoba in 206 B.C. The city was very important in the 900s CE as a famous center of Moorish art and culture. The cathedral in Córdoba is the city's chief landmark. It was built as a mosque (Muslim house of worship) in the 700s and was made into a Roman Catholic cathedral in 1238. More than 1,000 pillars of stone including granite, onyx, marble and jasper support its arches.
A soft, fine-grained leather called "cordovan" is made in Córdoba. Córdoba is the center of an agricultural region. Farms produce grain, grapes, olives, and vegetables.

</doc>
<doc id="20192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20192" title="Alicante">
Alicante

Alacant or Alicante (, Valencian: ) is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province of Alicante. It is in the southern part of the Valencian Community. It is also a historic Mediterranean port. The population of the city of Alicante proper is about 332,067, as of 2014, ranking as the second-largest Valencian city. Including nearby municipalities, Alicante was populated by 458,843 residents. Population of the metropolitan area (including Elche and satellite towns) was 795,034 as of 2009. Based on population it is the eighth-largest metropolitan area of Spain.
The city is a sea port and a tourist centre. It has a hot semi-arid climate ("BSh" in the Koeppen climate classification).
The avenue Maisonnave is the principal commercial street in the city of Alicante. In fact, Maisonnave is the sixth most expensive avenue in the whole of Spain, which gives an idea of the importance that this street has. The Corte inglés has in this central street both branches that it possesses in Alicant, one at each end of the avenue.
Santa Barbara's Castle is 166 metres up the Benacantil mountain. It's very strong with great strategic value. It's called Santa Barbara's Castle because the 4th of December is Santa Barbara's day and the 4th of December in 1248 is when it was taken from the Arabs by Alfonso of Castilla.

</doc>
<doc id="20193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20193" title="Phonology">
Phonology

Phonology is the science that studies the sound patterns of language. Phonology is part of linguistics, which is the scientific study of language.

</doc>
<doc id="20194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194" title="Linguistics">
Linguistics

Linguistics is the study of language. People who study language are called linguists.
There are five main parts of linguistics: phonology (the study of sounds, or phonemes), morphology (the study of parts of words, like "un-" and "-ing"), syntax (the study of word order and how sentences are made), semantics (the study of the meaning of words), and pragmatics (the study of the unspoken meaning of speech that is separate from the literal meaning of what is said; for example if you were to say "I'm cold" when what you actually want is for someone to turn off the fan). 
There are many ways to use linguistics every day. Some linguists are theoretical linguists, meaning they study the theory and ideas behind language, such as historical linguistics (the study of the history of language, and how it has changed), or sociolinguistics (the study of how different groups of people may use language differently). Some linguists are applied linguists, meaning they use linguistics to do things, such as forensic linguistics (which is used in crime investigations), or computational linguistics (which is used to help make computers understand languages, such as the iPhone's Siri application). 
Linguistics in its broader context includes evolutionary linguistics, which considers the origins of language; historical linguistics, which explores language change; sociolinguistics, which looks at the relation between linguistic variation and social structures; psycholinguistics, which explores the representation and function of language in the mind; neurolinguistics, which looks at language processing in the brain; language acquisition, how children or adults acquire language; and discourse analysis, which involves the structure of texts and conversations.
Although linguistics is the scientific study of language, a number of other intellectual disciplines are relevant to language and intersect with it. Semiotics, for example, is the general study of signs and symbols both within language and without. Literary theorists study the use of language in literature. Linguistics additionally draws on and informs work from such diverse fields as acoustics, anthropology, biology, computer science, human anatomy, informatics, neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, sociology, and speech-language pathology. Discourse analysis is the study of entire conversations or texts. 
Linguistics studies one language next to another to find similar properties. Doing that makes it possible to find things shared by all the languages of the world, and also find out which languages are related to each other. Linguists who study how languages are structured and how they work are said to study theoretical linguistics.
Another part of linguistics is involved in understanding how languages are used in society or in the world. Sociolinguistics studies how language is used in society, and historical linguistics studies how languages change over time and how languages were in the past. One part of historical linguistics is known as etymology, where people study the history of words. 
The part of linguistics which aims to find out how languages works in the mind is known as psycholinguistics. 
The study of language began in India with Pāṇini, the 5th century BC grammarian who wrote about the 3,959 rules of Sanskrit morphology, which described the different kinds of vowels and consonants Sanskrit had, as well as verb and noun classes. In the Middle East, Sibawayh (سیبویه) wrote a book about Arabic in 760 AD called "Al-kitab fi al-nahw" (الكتاب في النحو, "The Book on Grammar"); he was the first known author to talk about the difference between sounds and phonemes.
Linguistics started in the western world as early as it did in the East, but western linguistics at that time was more like philosophy, and less the study of language. Plato was the first western philosopher to write about semantics in his "Cratylus" dialogue, where he argues that words represent concepts that are eternal and exist in the world of ideas, and the word "etymology" is first used to talk about the history behind a word's meaning.

</doc>
<doc id="20196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20196" title="Region of Murcia">
Region of Murcia

The Region of Murcia is an autonomous community in the south-east of Spain. The region has 1,350,000 people. The capital is Murcia, with 410,000 people. Other important cities are Cartagena, Lorca, Molina de Segura, and Cieza.

</doc>
<doc id="20199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20199" title="1636">
1636

1636 was a leap year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20200" title="711">
711

711 was a year in the 8th century.

</doc>
<doc id="20202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20202" title="Segura">
Segura

Segura is a Spanish river that is 325 kilometers (200 miles) long. It flows through the provinces of Jaen, Albacete, Murcia, and Alicante, and the cities of Cieza, Molina de Segura, Murcia, Orihuela, Rojales, and Guardamar. It then flows into the Mediterranean Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="20203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20203" title="Orihuela">
Orihuela

Orihuela is a city on the coast in Spain in the Alicante province, on the Segura river in a district called "Vega Baja". Oranges and lemons are grown. The city has a population of 75,000 with very important historical monuments like the Cathedral and the church of Santiago, the church of Santa Justa and Rufina and the Seminarium.

</doc>
<doc id="20204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20204" title="Alicante Province">
Alicante Province

Alacant () province is the fifth largest Spanish province by population with 1,750,000, and the second largest in the Valencian Community. It is on the south-east Mediterranean coast and the capital is the city of Alicante, a sea- port with a University. It is a commercial city with monuments like Sainte Barbra Castle. Other important cities are Elche, 215,000 with palms trees and its important shoe industry; Torrevieja, 100,000, tourist centre with the world-famous Habaneras contest; Orihuela, 75,000, agricultural important center; Benidorm, 67,000, the Mediterranean Manhattan; Alcoi, 60,000; textile center, and Elda, 55,000, shoes industry.
The most important river is the Segura, in the south, which provides the water to Alicante, Elche, Torrevieja, Orihuela and other cities. There are others like Vinalopo, Serpis, Amadorio, Ravine of the Sheeps and Monnegre.
The biggest mountain is Aitana, and other mountains are Mariola, Puig Bell, Maigmo and Gold Head, near Alicante. In the coast there are islands, the most important is Tabarca, and other is the Benidorm island. An important coast success is the Penon of Ifach, in Calpe.
The activities in Alicante province are tourism, industry (shoes, carpets, plays, dolls, textiles) and modern agriculture of regadium (oranges, lemons, tomatoes, almonds, wine). There are two universities: University of Alicante and University of Michael Hernandez.

</doc>
<doc id="20205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20205" title="Turkmenistan">
Turkmenistan

Turkmenistan or Turkmenia is a country in the South-central Asia. It has borders with Afghanistan, Iran (Persia), Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan. It has no ocean coastline, but is on the Caspian Sea. The capital of Turkmenistan is Ashghabad.
Turkmenistan is divided into five provinces and one capital city district. The provinces are divided into districts which may be either counties or cities. 
Turkmenistan is one of the driest desert areas in the world. Some places have an average annual precipitation of only . The highest temperature recorded in Ashgabat is . Kerki, an extreme inland city located on the banks of the Amu Darya river, recorded in July 1983, but this value is unofficial. 50.1C is the highest temperature recorded at Repetek Reserve, recognized as the highest temperature ever recorded in the whole former Soviet Union.
Turkmenistan is the world's 52nd-largest country. It is slightly smaller than Spain and somewhat larger than the US state of California. Over 80% of the country is covered by the Karakum Desert.
The Turkmen shore along the Caspian Sea is long. The Caspian Sea is entirely landlocked, with no access to the ocean.
The major cities include Aşgabat, Türkmenbaşy (formerly Krasnovodsk) and Daşoguz.
<noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="20206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20206" title="Caesium">
Caesium

Caesium (or cesium) is the chemical element with the atomic number 55 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Cs.
Caesium is an alkali metal. Its melting point is low (28 °C). It is extremely reactive. Because of its high reactivity, it is a dangerous chemical. It may set itself on fire (ignite) in air. It explodes on contact with water. It reacts more violently than the other alkali metals with water. Because of this, caesium is stored in mineral oil.
Caesium is a rare element. Since there is little caesium on the Earth, it is rather expensive. The human body does not need caesium. In large amounts, it is mildly poisonous because it is close to potassium, which the body does need.
Caesium was first described in 1861, by Gustav Robert Kirchhoff and Robert Wilhelm Bunsen. They were testing mineral water, from Bad Dürkheim. After they separated calcium, strontium, magnesium and lithium, they saw two lines in the "blue" range of the spectrum. Because of these lines, they concluded that in addition to the elements already found, there must be another unknown substance in the mineral water. They named this substance caesium, after the color blue.
Caesium has at least 39 known isotopes ranging in atomic mass from 112 to 151. Only one of these, Cs, is stable. Therefore, the naturally-occurring isotope of caesium is Cs, which is not radioactive. Cs is used in atomic clocks, its vibration frequency used to define the length of the second. Another isotope, Cs is not made naturally but is made after nuclear fission has been done. It is very radioactive and used as an industrial gamma ray source. 
Caesium forms compounds with many other chemical elements. Caesium formate is used in oil drilling because of its high density.

</doc>
<doc id="20207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20207" title="Rubidium">
Rubidium

Rubidium is chemical element 37 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Rb. Its atomic mass is 85.47. It has 37 protons and 37 electrons. It is a soft silver colored metal. It was first discovered in 1861 by Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchoff in Heidelberg, Germany.
Rubidium melts at a very low temperature, for example it could melt in a person's hand. Rubidium is an alkali metal. It can make an amalgam with mercury.
Rubidium is very reactive. It will ignite in air because it reacts with many other elements in the air like oxygen and nitrogen. Rubidium reacts very violently with water to make hydrogen and rubidium hydroxide, a strong corrosive base. The reaction is normally very hot so the hydrogen ignites.
Rubidium forms chemical compounds in only one oxidation state: +1. Some rubidium compounds have a mixed oxidation state, though. Rubidium chloride is the most common rubidium compound. Rubidium hydroxide and rubidium carbonate are also used commonly. Rubidium compounds makes a red-violet color in a flame. Most rubidium compounds are colorless. Rubidium compounds are not as common as other alkali metal compounds, such get sodium compounds. Otherwise, they are similar.
Rubidium is about as common as zinc. It is the 23rd most common element in the Earth's crust. Most minerals only have a small amount of rubidium in them. It normally comes in small quantities in other minerals. It is made by reduction of rubidium ores with calcium. It is expensive because calcium is difficult to make and the rubidium needs to be kept in argon and away from water or air.
There are not many common uses for rubidium. Rubidium compounds are sometimes used in purple fireworks. It and its compounds are used mainly in science research though. It is also used to make superoxide ions. It is used in some special types of glass.
Rubidium compounds are not very dangerous in the human body; however, if a person gets too much from eating, they could get sick because it acts like other alkali metal ions such as sodium ions in sodium chloride. Rats can live with up to half of their potassium replaced with rubidium, though it is not likely for that to happen.
Rubidium is very dangerous. It reacts with air and water and makes corrosive substances.

</doc>
<doc id="20208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20208" title="Barium">
Barium

Barium is chemical element 56 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Ba. It contains 56 protons and 56 electrons. Its mass number is about 137.3. It is a metal.
Barium is part of a group of elements known as the alkaline earth metals. It is a silvery metal that easily turns black. It is soft and ductile. It can form alloys with some metals that are partially alloys and partially chemical compounds.
Barium is reactive, and if you put pure barium metal in the air, it will react with oxygen. At first it will turn black, then white as barium oxide is formed. Barium reacts with water to make barium hydroxide and hydrogen gas. Barium also reacts very fast with acids to make a barium salt and hydrogen. Barium can form barium peroxide if it is burned in air. 
Barium reacts with many other metal oxides and sulfides to make barium oxide or sulfide and the metal. It also reacts with carbon and nitrogen at a high temperature to make barium cyanide.
Barium is too reactive as a metal, so it is not found in the earth as a metal. It is found in chemical compounds. Barium only occurs in one oxidation state: +2. Most barium compounds are colorless. The ones that dissolve in water or stomach acid are very toxic. Barium sulfate is well known because it does not dissolve in water or acids. Barium compounds are quite heavy. Barium compounds put out a greenish flame when heated red-hot. 
Barium is found as barium sulfate (barite) and barium carbonate (witherite) in the ground. Both of these minerals do not dissolve in water. Barium sulfate hardly dissolves in anything. Barium is found mainly in China, Germany, India, Morocco, and the US. 
It is very hard to get barium from barium sulfate. So barium sulfate is reduced by carbon to make barium sulfide and carbon dioxide. The barium sulfide is dissolved in hydrochloric acid. This makes hydrogen sulfide and barium chloride. The barium chloride is melted and electrolyzed to get liquid barium metal. The barium metal is solidified and stored in oil.
Barium carbonate, the other ore of barium, is dissolved in hydrochloric acid to make barium chloride and carbon dioxide. The barium chloride is melted and electrolyzed, making barium metal.
Barium is used to remove oxygen from cathode ray tubes and vacuum tubes. It is placed inside and reacts with all of the oxygen, using it up. Barium is also used in spark plug wire. 
Certain compounds of barium, such as barium sulfate, are not toxic and can be put in the body. We can see where the barium travels in the body by X-rays and this can tell us whether there are problems, such as blockages. The barium sulfate builds up inside the body accumulating in organ systems. Barium sulfate absorbs the X-Rays as they pass through the body and an image is formed from the points where the rays have not passed through. It is useful because it provides a reasonably detailed image from very limited radiation exposure, compared with a CT scan for instance. Barium sulfate can be used as a pigment, too.
Other barium compounds have several other uses.
Barium is a very toxic element, though, and is dangerous. There is a really small amount of barium in our food, and this does not cause problems. If we get barium from other places, though, it can cause many problems. Even 1 gram of barium can kill you. It is dangerous because it acts like other really important elements, such as calcium and magnesium. If barium replaces these elements, it messes up the body.

</doc>
<doc id="20209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20209" title="Scandium">
Scandium

Scandium is chemical element number 21 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Sc.
Scandium is a metal in a group known as the transition metals. It is also a rare earth metal. What this means is that there is not very much scandium found in the earth. Because of this, the pure metal can be expensive. The pure metal is very reactive, and will react with other elements like oxygen. The metal turns from shiny to gray.
Scandium is not very dangerous because there is not much of it on Earth, so there is not enough of it to harm us. It does not have many uses. Its main use is perhaps as a component in Mercury-vapor lamps. Such lamps are used to light Stadiums.

</doc>
<doc id="20210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20210" title="Vanadium">
Vanadium

Vanadium is chemical element 23 on the periodic table. Its symbol is V.
Vanadium is a metal and is part of the group known as the transition metals. It is mostly used in steel where it helps strengthen the steel metal.
The human body may require a little bit of vanadium, even though scientists are not really sure. There is a little bit of vanadium in vitamins just to make sure that we do not get sick (in case our body does need vanadium).
Vanadium can react with a variety of other elements, and the chemical compounds it forms often have beautiful colors.

</doc>
<doc id="20211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20211" title="844">
844


</doc>
<doc id="20212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20212" title="Arsenic">
Arsenic

Arsenic is chemical element 33 on the periodic table. Its symbol is As. Its atomic number is 33 and its atomic mass is 74.02. It is in the pnictogen group on the periodic table.
Arsenic is found in three allotropes. Gray arsenic is the most common. It is a brittle, somewhat soft metalloid that is a little shiny. It has a density of 5.73g/cm. It is a semiconductor. Yellow arsenic is unstable and rare. It is the most toxic allotrope. It is a soft and waxy nonmetal, similar to white phosphorus. It turns into gray arsenic in light. Its density is 1.97g/cm, much lighter than gray arsenic. It is created when arsenic vapor (made by heating arsenic very hot) is cooled very fast by something like liquid nitrogen. Black arsenic is similar to red phosphorus. It is a brittle, black, and shiny nonmetal. It does not conduct electricity. Since gray arsenic is the most common, it is usually referred to as arsenic. 
Arsenic is found as one stable (nonradioactive) isotope, As. There are about 33 radioactive isotopes found. The longest lasting one is As, which has a half life of about 80 days.
Arsenic is a moderately unreactive element, similar to copper in reactivity. It burns in air to make garlic-smelling arsenic trioxide. Arsenic, as well as some of its compounds, do not have a liquid state; they sublime. Arsenic reacts with fluorine to make arsenic pentafluoride. It reacts with the rest of the halogens to make the arsenic trihalides. Arsenic does not dissolve in hydrochloric acid. It dissolves in concentrated nitric acid to make arsenic acid and in dilute nitric acid to make arsenious acid. It reacts with concentrated sulfuric acid to make arsenic trioxide. Arsenic burns with a pale lavender flame.
Arsenic forms chemical compounds in three oxidation states: -3, +3, and +5. -3 compounds are reducing agents. They are the main form of arsenic in the ground (as arsenides). Arsine is a colorless, highly toxic gas with a garlic odor. The +3 state is the most common. They are weak oxidizing agents. Arsenic trioxide is a white solid. It dissolves in water to make a solution of arsenious acid. The arsenic trichlorides are low melting covalent solids. The +5 state is common, too. They are strong oxidizing agents. Arsenic pentafluoride, a colorless and highly reactive gas, is the only stable arsenic pentahalide. Arsenic pentoxide dissolves in water to make arsenic acid, which can make arsenate salts.
-3 compounds are reducing agents. They are found as arsenides and arsine. The metal arsenides have properties between an alloy and a salt.
+3 compounds are weak oxidizing agents. Many are colorless, although some are orange.
Arsenites are salts of arsenious acid.
+5 compounds are strong oxidizing agents.
Arsenates are salts of arsenic acid.
Arsenic is found sometimes as an element in the ground, but is normally found in minerals. Some arsenic minerals have a metal and sulfur along with arsenic. Arsenopyrite is iron arsenic sulfide. It is the same as pyrite with arsenic added. Other arsenic minerals have a metal and arsenic. Erythrite, a cobalt arsenide mineral, is an example. Other arsenic minerals are simple. Realgar and orpiment (arsenic sulfides), simple arsenic minerals, are ores of arsenic.
Arsenic is found as a less toxic variety in fish and mushrooms. Some people think that humans need very small amounts of arsenic to be healthy. Some bacteria can use arsenic instead of phosphorus for some things; they are called arsenic bacteria.
Most arsenic is made from the waste products after other metals are processed. Only China actually mines arsenic.
Arsenic is made from arsenopyrite by heating it. This makes arsenic trioxide which sublimes (along with sulfur dioxide), while the iron oxide stays behind. The arsenic trioxide is condensed, while the sulfur dioxide does not condense. The arsenic trioxide can be reduced with carbon. Another way is to heat the arsenopyrite without air. Then gray arsenic is made. Realgar can be heated to make arsenic trioxide as well.
Arsenic was known since antiquity. It was alloyed with bronze to make the bronze harder. Some people used arsenic as make-up, although it was toxic. Arsenic was well known as a poison. Since people used it to kill royalty and it was hard to detect, it was called the "Poison of Kings" and the "King of Poisons". An arsenic compound could have been the first organometallic compound (a metal bonded to an organic compound).
Arsenic compounds were used as a preservative for wood. Once people saw how toxic arsenic was, they stopped using it to preserve wood. Some feed for animals had arsenic in it to prevent disease. Lead arsenate was used as an insecticide in orchards but damaged the brains of those who put the insecticide on the trees.
Arsenic was used in medicines in the 1700s, 1800s, and 1900s. Arsenic trioxide was used to treat cancer. Very tiny doses of arsenic compounds can act as stimulants. Some arsenic compounds are used as poison gases. 
Arsenic as an element is used in alloys. The lead in lead acid batteries has some arsenic in it to make it stronger. Some semiconductors have arsenic in them.
Copper arsenate was used as a coloring for sweets. Paris green, a green pigment having arsenic in it, made many people sick. Some bullets have arsenic in them. Arsenic is sometimes added to brass to prevent the zinc from coming out. Arsenic was used in optical glass but was taken out because it was toxic.
Arsenic and its compounds are highly toxic. They are carcinogens. Water near arsenic mines is normally contaminated with arsenic. Wood that was preserved with arsenic compounds can leach arsenic into the soil. Emissions from coke ovens have arsenic in them.

</doc>
<doc id="20213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20213" title="Manganese">
Manganese

Manganese is chemical element 25 on the periodic table. Its symbol is Mn. (Some people get it confused with magnesium, the symbol is Mg). It has 25 protons. Its mass number is 54.94.
Manganese is a silvery-gray metal and is part of the group known as the transition metals. It is similar to iron. It is hard to melt, but easy to oxidize. Manganese forms chemical compounds in several oxidation states: +2, +4, and +7 are the most common. Manganese compounds can be black, brown, pink, red, green, blue, and purple. Manganese(II) compounds are pink or light brown. They are unreactive. Manganese(II) chloride is a common example. Manganese(III) compounds are weak oxidizing agents. Manganese(IV) compounds are stronger oxidizing agents, but they are rarer. They are normally black in colour. Manganese(IV) oxide is an example.
Manganese(V) compounds are not stable and disproportionate easily. They are bright blue. They are very rare. Hypomanganates are the most common manganese(V) compounds. Manganese(VI) compounds are made in the process used to make permanganates. They disproportionate too. Manganates are weak reducing agents and moderate oxidizing agents. They are bright green.
Manganese(VII) compounds are purple-black and are powerful oxidizing agents. Permanganates contain the MnO ion. They are normally purple-black and strong oxidizing agents. Potassium permanganate is an example.
Manganese is sometimes found alloyed with iron naturally. These rocks, called meteorites, came from space. Pyrolusite is one of the main sources of manganese. It also occurs as manganese carbonate. Some silicates have manganese in them.
Manganese is normally made in an alloy with steel. This is made by mixing manganese ore and iron ore in a furnace and reducing it with carbon. This forms an alloy called ferromanganese. Pure manganese is made by reacting the manganese ore with sulfuric acid and electrolyzing it.
Manganese is used a lot in steel to make it stronger. This is the main use for manganese metal. Manganese compounds, particularly manganese(IV) oxide, are used in alkaline cells and Leclanche cells. Manganese metal is also alloyed with aluminium. 
Our bodies and plants need manganese to work right. If we do not get enough manganese, we can get sick. We get manganese from our food and vitamins also have some manganese to make sure that we get enough.
Manganese dust can irritate lungs. Some manganese compounds cause toxicity when ingested. Manganese is less toxic than nickel or copper. Permanganates are the most toxic manganese compounds. When someone is exposed to manganese for a long time it can cause a problem with the nervous system.

</doc>
<doc id="20214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20214" title="Gallium">
Gallium

Gallium (chemical symbol: Ga) is chemical element 31 on the periodic table.
Gallium is a metal, but is has some unusual properties. If it is held in a person's hand, it will melt. Gallium does not conduct electricity well, and is known as a semiconductor. That means gallium can be used in computers to make them work. It is very shiny, so it is used to paint mirrors when melted.

</doc>
<doc id="20215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20215" title="Nikita Khrushchev">
Nikita Khrushchev

Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev (15 April 1894 – 11 September 1971) was the leader of the Soviet Union after the death of Joseph Stalin. He ruled from 1953–1964.
Nikita was born in the town of Kalinovka in Russia. He later moved to Ukraine. He worked in mines, and became part of the Bolshevik movement. He moved his way up in the Communist Party, eventually becoming trusted by Joseph Stalin. In the years after Stalin died, Khrushchev became the leader of the Soviet Union.
He died of heart disease on 11 September 1971.
When Nikita became the leader of the Soviet Union, he began something he called "De-Stalinization". He made a secret speech, in which he denounced Stalin as a man who committed many murders of innocent people. In early 1956, he took down all posters and statues of Joseph Stalin. Also, he moved Stalin's grave to a place where people could not see it.
He also had better contacts with the western countries like the USA, Britain, and France. This means the USSR and the western world were friendlier. He visited America in 1959. During this visit, Khrushchev spoke at the United Nations and visited where he wanted, including destinations such as New York and Hollywood. However, his visit to Disneyland was cancelled for security reaons.
But the USSR and the US still did not trust each other. In 1962 America and the USSR had a Cuban Missile Crisis which could have led to nuclear war but didn't. Khrushchev had bargained with the Americans to get rid of the missiles they had placed in Turkey, for the missiles in Cuba were the only way for withdrawal.
Also, during this time, the Soviet Union became a lot less friendly with China. Because the Chinese leader Mao Zedong liked Stalin, he did not like it when Khrushchev became friendlier with the west, and when Nikita Khrushchev began a "destalinization" campaign.

</doc>
<doc id="20218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20218" title="Rambla de las Ovejas">
Rambla de las Ovejas

The Rambla de las Ovejas (which translates to Ravine of the Sheeps) is a water course of the province of Alicante, in Spain. It originates at the foot of the Maigmo, to 1,100 meters of height and gathers the waters of the sides of the Maigmo, Cid and others of minor height across numerous tributary ravines. It ends in the city of Alicante, between the neighborhoods of Babylon and Saint Gabriel.
The tributary ravines are those of Rambuchar, Pepior, Alabaster and Bramble, between the most important. The normally dry riverbed experiences forts grown as consequence of torrents, like the rains in 1982 it came to 400 m³/seg. in Alicante causing serious destruction and human losses. It has since been canalized providing to the riverbed of a potential capacity of 735 m³/seg. In the floods of 1997 it came to 100 m³/seg.

</doc>
<doc id="20221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20221" title="Guadalquivir">
Guadalquivir

Guadalquivir is a river in southern Spain. It crosses the autonomous community of Andalusia. The name derives from the Arab "Wadi al-Kabir" ("big river"), whereas the Romans were called it "Betis".
Guadalquivir starts in the Glen of the Sources in the mountains near Cazorla (Jaen province) and ends in Sanlucar de Barrameda (Cadiz province). It goes through the provinces of Jaen, Cordoba, Seville and Cadiz. The river is long. The main tributaries are the rivers Genil (which flows through Granada), The Minor Guadiana, Guadalbullon, and Guadajoz on the left side, and Guadalmena, Jandula, and Guadiato on the right.
It is the only river in Spain with shipping traffic. At present, it only is navigable up to Seville. In the Roman epoch it was navigable up to Cordoba.

</doc>
<doc id="20222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20222" title="Ebro">
Ebro

Ebro is a Spanish river. It flows through Reinosa, Miranda de Ebro, Logrono, Tudela, Zaragoza, and Tortosa. It empties into the Mediterranean Sea in the province of Tarragona.

</doc>
<doc id="20223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20223" title="Toledo Province">
Toledo Province

Province of Toledo () is one of the provinces of Castile-La Mancha, in the center of Spain, near Madrid. The capital is Toledo and the biggest city is Talavera of the Queen. The population of the province is near 600,000.

</doc>
<doc id="20224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20224" title="Talavera de la Reina">
Talavera de la Reina

Talavera of the Queen ("Talavera de la Reina" in Spanish) is a city of the interior of Spain. It is the capital of a wide region belonging to the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha. It is located in the northwest of the province of Toledo. Talavera of the Queen is the second biggest city of Castile-La Mancha, and the first one of the province, with a population of 85.172 inhabitants.
Its mistress is "Our Lady of the Meadow".
As curiosity of this locality emphasizes that Gwyneth Paltrow is an adopted child of this locality.

</doc>
<doc id="20225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20225" title="Castile-La Mancha">
Castile-La Mancha

Castile-La Mancha is an autonomous community in Spain with a population over 2,000,000. The capital is Toledo and the biggest cities are Albacete, Talavera of the Queen, Guadalajara, Ciudad Real, Puertollano, and Cuenca.
Provinces of Castile-La Mancha:

</doc>
<doc id="20228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20228" title="Ciudad Real">
Ciudad Real

Ciudad Real (this translates to "Royal City") is a city in Spain. It is the capital of the province with the same name, in the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha.
The city has 69,063 people who live there. It is an average of 628 meters above sea level. The municipal area is 285 km². It is approximately 200 km to the south of Madrid.

</doc>
<doc id="20230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20230" title="Ciudad Real Province">
Ciudad Real Province

Ciudad Real (Royal City in English) is a province of Spain. It is in the community of Castile-La Mancha. It has 497,691 people living in it.

</doc>
<doc id="20231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20231" title="Puertollano">
Puertollano

Puertollano (which translates to Flatport, in English) is a city in Spain. It is the second biggest in Ciudad Real province, in the region of Castile-La Mancha. It is an important industrial center, with a population of 50,000.

</doc>
<doc id="20233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20233" title="NOFX">
NOFX

NOFX is a popular punk rock band from California. The band was formed in 1983 by Fat Mike. As of April 2009, NOFX has released eleven full-length albums. Their latest one, "Coaster", came out on April 28, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="20234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20234" title="Toledo">
Toledo

Toledo is the name of several things. The best known cities are:

</doc>
<doc id="20235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20235" title="Methane">
Methane

Methane is a hydrocarbon that is a gas at room temperature (20°C). Its molecular formula is CH, so it has one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms per molecule. It is often found as the main part of natural gas. Methane is a greenhouse gas 22 times more effective than carbon dioxide. It is also less stable and slowly oxidates by oxygen to carbon dioxide and water. 
Methane is used in gas taps in places such as chemistry classrooms, laboratories, etc. as it burns very easily because of its simple molecular structure.
Methane's molecular structure is very simple. It is a single carbon atom surrounded by four hydrogen atoms.
Methane can be produced by many chemical methods, but usually is found in natural gas and is obtained by fractional distillation, after it is become liquid.

</doc>
<doc id="20239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20239" title="Category:Turkmenistan">
Category:Turkmenistan

Turkmenistan

</doc>
<doc id="20247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20247" title="North Country">
North Country

North Country is a movie about a woman being harassed in a mining facility.

</doc>
<doc id="20248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20248" title="Dance Dance Revolution">
Dance Dance Revolution

Dance Dance Revolution is a series of video games made by Konami in which players step on arrows on a large pad or mat to match the arrows on screen. The arrows are in time with the music. Because players are moving themselves along to the music, they look like they are dancing. There is a large variety of music.
There is a bar at the top of the screen. If players make mistakes, the bar gets smaller. If players do not make mistakes, the bar grows. The game ends if the player makes too many mistakes. 
Players can choose between three levels. They are called light, standard, and heavy. Light is easy and heavy is hard. On some of the newer games, there is a beginner mode, which is very easy, and a challenge mode, which is very hard.
Players are graded by their performance in letters (A, B, C, D, E) based on how well they played the song. The better a player does on a song, the higher their grade is.
From "DDR SuperNOVA" to later versions, the levels are called beginner, basic, difficult, expert, and challenge.
If the player gets an "AA" on the last stage in "Expert", "Heavy", or "Challenge", they can play an extra stage. This one is sudden death, meaning that one wrong step fails the game.
Some educators even believe DDR should be in schools as exercise.

</doc>
<doc id="20249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20249" title="Street Fighter II">
Street Fighter II

Street Fighter II is a fighting game by Capcom made in 1991.
The player controls a martial arts fighter and has to knock out the opponent. There are many playable characters, the most popular of which are Ryu, Ken Masters, Guile, and Chun Li. Each character has special moves that require special commands to perform. The game has 4 bosses - Balrog (M. Bison in Japan), Vega (Balrog in Japan), Sagat, and M. Bison (Vega in Japan). (Balrog and Sagat were also featured in the first Street Fighter game). There have been many follow-up games to "Street Fighter II". The Street Fighter series of games is still very popular. Though it is twenty years old, many game players still prefer "Street Fighter II" to newer fighting games. 
The game was released for arcades and different consoles.

</doc>
<doc id="20250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20250" title="Mighty Morphin Power Rangers">
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is a television series which ran for 3 seasons (one season of television is made in a year), which is longer than the "Power Rangers" shows after this series have lasted. This series has 155 episodes in total. This series aired on Fox from 1993 to 1996. This series re-aired on ABC Kids in January 2010. The next show after the third season is called "Power Rangers: Zeo". There are many different versions of Power Rangers, and most of them were made with better technology, yet many still prefer this one more than any other. Like all Power Rangers shows, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is based on Super Sentai shows & from Japan. Each season of "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers" is based on a different Super Sentai show (Zyuranger, Dairanger & Kakuranger) from Japan.
Five teenagers battle against the witch Rita Repulsa and the wizard Lord Zedd to defend the earth. They have large robots called Zords and battle suits for their fights. They are armed with special weapons like swords, axes, bows, daggers and lances to help them fight monsters. Rita and Lord Zedd have an army of fighters known as Putties, which get destroyed and broken into many pieces when they are hit by their weak spot - a Z plate on their chest.
Rita is in a prison on the Moon. When she gets out of it, she wants to destroy Earth, because that's what she wanted to do before she was put in prison. She brings along her helpers, who were also in prison. One of them is called Goldar. He is a blue gorilla in gold armor who can fight better than anyone. To stop her, five teenagers are chosen by a wizard called Zordon. Zordon has an robot called Alpha 5 who helps him. The teenagers are given special magic coins that turn them into Power Rangers.
Rita has her own magic coin, and uses it to make her own evil Power Ranger, the Green Ranger. The Green Ranger fights the good Power Rangers, because Rita is controlling his mind. They free him from Rita's evil magic, but his magic coin stops working the right way, and begins to hurt him when he uses it. The Green Ranger gives up his magic coin to the Red Ranger who will not get hurt by it.
When Lord Zedd comes into the show, he destroys the Power Rangers' Zords. Zordon takes the Green Ranger's magic coin and uses it to make new Zords for the Power Rangers. These new Zords are mostly fairy tale animals, like the unicorn and the dragon. The old Zords were Dinosaurs, like Triceratops and T-Rex. Lord Zedd also puts Rita back in her prison and throws her away into space, because she was not doing a good enough job of being evil.
But one day, a new Power Ranger appears. His costume is white, and his Zord is a white tiger. No one knows who he is, but he turns out to be the old Green Ranger. Later, three of the Power Rangers have to leave the team and go to Switzerland. They choose three teenagers from another school to take their powers.
Rita comes back, too, and gives Lord Zedd a love potion. He falls in love with her, and they get married. Goldar gives Lord Zedd another potion to stop the love potion, but Lord Zedd's love for Rita turns out to be true and they stay married.
Rita's brother, Rito Revolto, comes to visit his sister. He looks like a skeleton. Rito does what Rita and Lord Zedd could not do, and destroys the Power Ranger's magic coins. The Power Rangers go and find Ninjor, a powerful ninja (a ninja is a type of fighter from Japan), who made the magic coins. He agrees to help them and makes new coins and new Zords for them. They become Ninja Power Rangers, and their new Zords are animals like the wolf and the frog.
At the end of this season, Rita and Rito's father comes to Earth. He is very powerful, even more powerful than his son and daughter together. He uses magic to turn back time, making the Power Rangers into children. They lose their new ninja powers, and go off to find new powers. The next show, Power Rangers Zeo, starts after this happens.

</doc>
<doc id="20252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20252" title="Office Space">
Office Space

Office Space is a 1999 American comedy movie starring Ron Livingston and Jennifer Aniston. The movie was directed by Mike Judge. The movie is a satire of white collar office work in the United States.
Office Space received mostly positive reviews from reviewers, which means that most of them thought that it was a good movie. However, it did not make very much money at movie theaters, only earning $10,827,810 from movie tickets. The movie went on to become a cult classic, becoming more popular over time.

</doc>
<doc id="20256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20256" title="Syriana">
Syriana

Syriana is an 2005 American drama thriller movie, which has won Academy Award and Golden Globe Awards. It is directed by Stephen Gaghan and produced by Jennifer Fox, Michael Nozik, Georgia Kacandes, Steven Soderbergh, George Clooney. The movie stars Clooney, Matt Damon, Jeffrey Wright, Chris Cooper, and William Hurt.
The movie is about a lot of people doing complicated things. One of the people is a CIA agent (Clooney) who is angered when his boss tries to invade his privacy. Another person, Damon, whose child dies, gets a better job working for a king. Then another person, a lawyer, Jeffrey Wright finds out that the oil company is actually not good and should be removed from power immediately. The last part of the movie is about two Muslims who become suicide bombers because they feel offended.

</doc>
<doc id="20259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20259" title="Shareware">
Shareware

Shareware is a way to sell software.
The user will get a preview or demo of the software for free. This way, the user can decide if he or she likes the program or not before buying the complete program.
Users can get games for free this way but most of the time these games do not have all the levels. Sometimes Internet Relay Chat clients let users have a demo of their client for 30 days, but after that, in order to keep using it, the user will have to pay money.

</doc>
<doc id="20260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260" title="Brokeback Mountain">
Brokeback Mountain

Brokeback Mountain is a 2005 American romantic drama movie by Ang Lee. The film is set in Wyoming during the years from 1963 to 1981. The story is about two bisexual cowboys, Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal, who are in love with each other. During that time it was difficult to have homosexual relationships. The movie is based on a short story of the same name by Annie Proulx.
"Brokeback Mountain" was a big success. It won many important prizes: the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival, Best Picture and Best Director at the BAFTA and the Golden Globe awards. It also received 8 nominations at the 78th Academy Awards, where it won 3 Oscars: Best Director, Best Original Score and Best Adapted Screenplay. It is in the 12th place for romantic movies that made the most money.
In 1963, Ennis Del Mar (Heath Ledger) and Jack Twist (Jake Gyllenhaal) are hired by Joe Aguirre (Randy Quaid). They need to look after his sheep up in Brokeback Mountain for the summer. One night, Jack makes a move on Ennis and the two men end up having sex. Soon an emotional relationship develops. Before leaving at the end of the summer they have a fight.
When they return home, Ennis marries Alma Beers (Michelle Williams) and has two daughters with her. Jack goes back the next summer but does not get hired because Joe had seen him with Ennis the year before. He moves to Texas, where he marries a rodeo rider, Lureen Newsome (Anne Hathaway). After four years, Jack goes back to meet Ennis. They kiss and Alma sees them. Jack would like to go and live with him but Ennis does not want to. They decide to continue meeting from time to time for fishing trips.
The marriages of both Jack and Ennis get worse. Alma and Dennis divorce in 1975. Later Alma tells Dennis he knows about Jack. They have a fight and do not see each other again. Lureen becomes a businesswoman and her father wants Jack to stop being a cowboy. Jack asks Ennis again to live together, but Ennis does not want to leave his children. At the end of one fishing trip, Ennis and Jack have another argument.
Later, Ennis sends a postcard to Jack. It is given back to him with a "DECEASED" stamp. Lureen tells Ennis that Jack had an accident. Ennis instead thinks that he was killed by a gang because he was gay. Ennis goes to Jack's parents to get his ashes. Jack wanted them to be thrown on Brokeback Mountain but his father does not give them to Ennis. However, his mother lets him have a look around Jack's room. Ennis finds the shirts that they were wearing all those years ago when they first had a fight.
Some time later, Ennis is living alone in a trailer. His daughter, Alma Jr., comes to tell him that she wants to marry a guy. Ennis tells her he will be there at the wedding. When she leaves, he opens his wardrobe where he keeps the shirts and a photo of Brokeback Mountain. He whispers "Jack, I swear..." before walking away.

</doc>
<doc id="20261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261" title="A Christmas Carol">
A Christmas Carol

A Christmas Carol is a novella by the British writer Charles Dickens. It was first published on 19 December 1843 by Chapman & Hall in London. The illustrations were drawn by John Leech. The first edition was a beautiful and expensive book. It was sold out by Christmas Eve, but Dickens never made the money he expected on the tale due to the book's high production costs. 
The novella was written at a time when the British were longing for the traditional merry Olde English Christmas. Christmas customs of the past were being revived. New Christmas customs such as the Christmas tree and the greeting card were making their first appearances. Old carols were being sung. The novella has been credited with restoring the festive spirit of Christmas after a period of Puritan sobriety and solemnity.
The story is about a Christmas-hating miser named Ebenezer Scrooge. On Christmas Eve, he is visited by four ghosts who transform him into a kind and generous man. The story has a strong moral messages about greed and poverty. It is usually read at Christmas time and has been adapted to theatre, movies, radio, and television many times. 
Ebenezeer Scrooge is a Christmas-hating old miser and businessman. One Christmas Eve, Scrooge declines an invitation to his nephew's house for Christmas dinner, telling his nephew that Christmas is "Humbug". He then refuses to give a donation to two men who are collecting for charity.
Later that evening, he is visited by the ghost of his dead business partner Jacob Marley, a man whose greed and selfishness have doomed him to eternal hellfire. He tells Scrooge that he must change his ways or that hellfire will be his fate. Marley warns him that during the night he will be visited by three more ghosts. These will show him where he went wrong in his life, and how to be a better person in the future.
The first ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Past. This ghost shows him his unhappy childhood and how he did not get married. The second ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Present. This ghost shows him things which are happening now, such as how his clerk, Bob Cratchit, is having a nice Christmas despite not having much money. He also shows him Bob's youngest son, Tiny Tim, who is crippled.
Later, the ghost shows him how his nephew is having a good Christmas, and how Scrooge is missing out. The third ghost is the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come. This ghost shows Scrooge what Christmas will be like in the future if he does not change. First, people are shown celebrating a man's death and robbing from his house. The ghost also shows him that Tiny Tim has died. Scrooge is then shown his own grave, and realizes that the celebrations were for his death. 
On Christmas morning, Scrooge wakes up and realizes that he has to change. He decides to celebrate Christmas, and help Tiny Tim get better. He sends his clerk and his family a prize turkey. Through the ghosts' help he becomes a better man.
The book made popular the phrase "Merry Christmas" as well as the name "Scrooge" and the ejaculation "Bah! Humbug". The book spurred charitable giving in the years following its first publication. Its lasting legacy is returning to Christmas the merriment and festivity the day lost after a period of Puritan sobriety. 
Online editions

</doc>
<doc id="20262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20262" title="Aruba">
Aruba

Aruba is an island in the Caribbean Sea, just a short distance north of the Venezuelan Paraguaná Peninsula, and it forms a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Unlike much of the Caribbean region, it has a dry climate and an arid, cactus-strewn landscape. This climate has helped tourism, because visitors to the island can reliably expect warm, sunny weather.
The island broke off from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986, hoping to gain its independence by 1996. In 1990, that effort stopped at the request of the island people.
Aruba is one of the four countries that form the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The other nations are the Netherlands, Curaçao and Sint Maarten. The citizens of these countries all share a single nationality: Dutch. 
About three quarters of the Aruban gross national product is earned through tourism or related activities.
The island came into the news after U.S. high school student Natalee Holloway disappeared on a graduation trip on May 30, 2005.
Aruba is a generally flat, riverless island. It is in the southern part of the Caribbean Sea. The western and southern beaches have white sandy beaches. They are generally protected from the ocean currents. This is one of the reasons Aruba is a popular tourist location. 
Together with Bonaire and Curaçao, Aruba forms a group referred to as the ABC islands. Collectively, Aruba and the other Dutch islands in the Caribbean are often called the Dutch Caribbean.
Aruba has no administrative subdivisions. For census purposes, it is divided into eight regions. Its capital is Oranjestad.

</doc>
<doc id="20263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20263" title="Kingdom of the Netherlands">
Kingdom of the Netherlands

The Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1954 and is now made up of four countries:
European country:
Caribbean islands:
The "Caribbean Netherlands" are special municipalities ('public body') of the Netherlands (see ) and consists of: 
The "Netherlands Antilles" don't exist anymore and were made up of the six above mentioned Caribbean islands.

</doc>
<doc id="20264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20264" title="Kill Bill">
Kill Bill

Kill Bill is an American crime movie directed by Quentin Tarantino. It was released in two parts; "Volume 1" and "Volume 2". In most countries it is rated for adult viewing only because of extreme violence and profanity.

</doc>
<doc id="20266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20266" title="Drive-by shooting">
Drive-by shooting

A drive-by shooting is when a gun is fired from a moving vehicle, at a target outside the vehicle.
Tupac Shakur and Biggie Smalls were killed because of a drive-by shooting.

</doc>
<doc id="20278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20278" title="Andalusia">
Andalusia

Andalusia () is the first in population among the 17 Autonomous communities in Spain and the second, after Castile and León, in area. The territory is divided into eight provinces: Almería, Cádiz, Córdoba, Granada, Huelva, Jaén, Málaga and Seville. Its capital is the city of Seville (Spanish: "Sevilla"). 
Andalusia is in the south of the Iberian peninsula, just to the south of the autonomous communities of Extremadura and Castile-La Mancha; west of the autonomous community of Murcia and the Mediterranean Sea; east of Portugal and the Atlantic Ocean; and north of the Mediterranean Sea and the Strait of Gibraltar. The small British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar shares a land border with the Andalusian province of Cádiz at the eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar.
The name Andalusia is the modern version of the Arabic language "Al-Andalus" (الأندلس), name used by the Muslims for all of the territory of the Iberian Peninsula under their control. During that period, northern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Christian kings and the southern Iberian Peninsula was controlled by Muslims.
In 711 CE, the Muslims invaded the Iberian Peninsula, then controlled by Christians of Visigothic origin. By 719 the Muslims conquered all of the peninsula except for a small area in the northern Pyrenees Mountains. The Muslims used the name Al-Andalus for all of the territory of the Iberian Peninsula under their control.
Christians in the north waged war for more than seven centuries against the Muslims, gradually taking over more and more of the southern areas. This process of war is called the "Reconquista" (a Spanish and Portuguese word meaning "to conquest again"). In the year 1492, King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain retook the last stronghold in the southern area at Granada. In that same year, the Muslims and Jews were forced to leave Spain.
The Andalusian coat of arms shows the figure of Hercules and two lions between the two pillars of Hercules that tradition puts on both sides of the Strait of Gibraltar. The words below read "Andalucía por sí, para España y la Humanidad" ("Andalusia by herself, for Spain and Humanity"). Over the two columns is an arch in the colors of the flag of Andalusia, with the Latin words "Dominator Hercules Fundator".
The official flag of Andalusia has three equal horizontal stripes, colored green, white, and green respectively; the Andalusian coat of arms is on the central stripe. It was approved in a meeting in 1918 of Andalusian nationalists at Ronda, a city in the province of Málaga.
The anthem of Andalusia was composed by José del Castillo Díaz with lyrics by Blas Infante. The music was inspired by "Santo Dios", a religious folk song sung at harvest time by peasants.
The national holiday, the "Día de Andalucía", is celebrated on 28 February.
Andalusia is one of the 17 Spanish autonomous communities and is in the southwestern region of the European Union. It has a surface area of , 17.3 percent of the territory of Spain. By area, it is the second Spanish autonomous community.
The natural limits of Andalusia are: to the south, the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea; to the north, the Sierra Morena, mountain range that separates Andalusia from the autonomous communities of Extremadura and Castilla-La Mancha; to the west is Portugal; and to the east is Murcia.
Andalusia has the Iberian peninsula's highest mountains and nearly 15 percent of its terrain over . The picture is similar for areas under (with the Baetic Depression), and for the variety of slopes.
The Atlantic coast is mostly beach and gradually sloping coasts; the Mediterranean coast has many cliffs. These differences divide the region naturally into Upper Andalusia (two mountainous areas) and Lower Andalusia (the broad basin of the Guadalquivir).
The three main geographical regions of Andalusia are:
In general, Andalusia has a Mediterranean climate, except in the Valley of Granada (), with occasional heavy rains and extremely hot temperatures.
Rainfall decreases from west to east. The place in Andalusia with the highest rainfall is in the Sierra de Grazalema ( per year) and the driest place is Cabo de Gata, the place with the least amount of rainfall in Europe with only of rain per year.
The average temperature in Andalusia throughout the year is over . Averages in the cities range from in Baeza to in Málaga. Much of the Guadalquivir valley and the Mediterranean coast has an average of about . The coldest month is January when Granada at the foot of the Sierra Nevada experiences an average temperature of . The hottest are July and August, with an average temperature of for Andalusia as a whole. Córdoba is the hottest provincial capital, followed by Seville.
The mountain ranges are cooler than the plains and have a higher rainfall with some snow in winter. The Sierra Nevada, above , is snow covered for most of the year.
Andalusia has rivers that flow into both the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. Flowing to the Atlantic are the Guadiana, Odiel-Tinto, Guadalquivir, Guadalete, and Barbate. Flowing to the Mediterranean are the Guadiaro, Guadalhorce, Guadalmedina, Guadalfeo, Andarax (also known as the Almería) and Almanzora. Of these, the Guadalquivir is the longest in Andalusia and fifth longest on the Iberian peninsula, at .
Andalusia consists of eight provinces. Each of the Andalusian provinces bears the same name as its capital:
The Andalusians are the inhabitants of Andalusia of the southern region in Iberian Peninsula. They are generally considered an ethnically distinct peoples because of the two of the most important markers of distinctiveness: their own language and an awareness of a presumed common origin. Andalusian is said to be a distinct dialect of Spanish, although it is debatable, according to the nationalists. The Andalusians have a rich culture which includes the famous flamenco style of music and dance, even though it was adopted by the Spanish gypsies who have changed it and monopolized into their own culture.

</doc>
<doc id="20279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20279" title="Granada">
Granada

Granada is a Spanish city, capital of the province of Granada, in Andalusia. With 233,000 inhabitants, it is an important artistic and cultural center. The city has several famous monuments, such as the Alhambra, the Cathedral, the "Alcaiceria", and the "Corral del Carbon". It is near Sierra Nevada, the highest mountain range in Spain, in the valley where the Genil and Darro rivers meet. The Darro runs through the "Albaicin" and the" Sacromonte", two charming historical areas of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="20280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20280" title="Cadiz">
Cadiz

Cadiz is a Spanish city, capital of the Province of Cadiz, in Andalusia. It is the southernmost capital in the Iberian Peninsula. The population is 130,000, but it is the centre of a metropolitan area, the Bay of Cadiz, with more than 500,000 inhabitants. Cadiz is known for its attractive beaches where many nautical sports can be practiced. This is possible thanks to the excellent climate all year round. It is one of the oldest cities in Western Europe and it used to be one of the most imporant Spanish ports during the Spanish Golden Age and the Age of Discovery.

</doc>
<doc id="20281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20281" title="Merida">
Merida

Mérida is the capital of Extremadura, an autonomous community in Spain. It has 55,000 inhabitants and is an important Roman center, with the theatre and the bridge over the Guadiana river.

</doc>
<doc id="20282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20282" title="Cuenca">
Cuenca

Cuenca is a Spanish city, capital of the Cuenca province, in Castile-La Mancha. It is a small city with 50,000 inhabitants. It is very famous for its monuments: The hanging houses, the Cathedral and other churches. It is situated over the Jucar river, near the Serrania of Cuenca.

</doc>
<doc id="20283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20283" title="Balearic Islands">
Balearic Islands

The Balearic Islands (officially and in Catalan Illes Balears) are an autonomous community of Spain, formed by the "Balearic Islands province". The main Balearic islands are Mallorca (also called in English "Majorca"), Minorca, Eivissa or Ibiza, and Formentera. The capital is Palma de Mallorca, and other cities are Mahon, Ibiza, Inca, Ciutadella, and Calvia.

</doc>
<doc id="20284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20284" title="Henry Fonda">
Henry Fonda

Henry Jaynes Fonda (May 16, 1905 – August 12, 1982) was an American movie, stage, television, radio, and voice actor. He was the head of a family of actors: son Peter, daughter Jane, granddaughter Bridget and grandson Troy Garity. He has won an Academy Award.
Fonda starred in movies including "The Grapes of Wrath" (1940), "12 Angry Men" (1957), "Once Upon a Time in the West" (1968) and "Yours, Mine and Ours" (1968). His last performance was in 1981's "On Golden Pond".
Fonda was born on May 16, 1905 in Grand Island, Nebraska. He studied at the University of Minnesota. 
He was married to Margaret Sullavan from 1931 until they divorced in 1932. Then he was married to Frances Ford Seymour from 1936 until her death in 1950. Then he was married to Susan Blanchard from 1950 until they divorced in 1956. Then he was married to Afdera Franchetti from 1957 until they divorced in 1961. Then he was last married to Shirlee Mae Adams from 1965 until his death in 1982. 
Fonda died on August 12, 1982 from heart disease in Los Angeles, California. He was 77.

</doc>
<doc id="20285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20285" title="Provinces of Spain">
Provinces of Spain

There are fifty parts of Spain called provinces. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="20287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20287" title="Cartagena">
Cartagena

Cartagena is a city in the Region of Murcia, in Spain. In the south of the region, at the Mediterranean Sea. The population of the city is 205,000 and it is an industrial centre. Cartagena was founded by the Carthaginese as "Qart Hadasht" and the name means "New City". 

</doc>
<doc id="20288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20288" title="Palermo">
Palermo

Palermo is a Italian city. It is the capital and largest city of Sicily. It has 720,000 people, with more than 1,000,000 in the metropolitan area. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate. The city started as a colony of Phoenicia. It was later Islamic and Norman and part of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies.

</doc>
<doc id="20289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20289" title="Bosnia and Herzegovina">
Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bosnia~Herzegovina or Bosnia-Herzegovina (locally: "Bosna i Hercegovina/Босна и Херцеговина", most commonly abbreviated as "BiH/БиХ") is a country in Southeastern Europe, with an area of 51,197 km and 4,600,000 people. Countries around Bosnia and Herzegovina are Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro. The capital is Sarajevo, and other important cities are Banja Luka, Mostar, Zenica and Tuzla.
The first state in Bosnia and Herzegovina was in the Middle Ages. During the Ottoman Empire, it was a very important province in the Balkans and the capital, Sarajevo, had 100,000 people. In 1878, it became a province of Austria-Hungary when the Empire took over Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908. In 1914 the Archduke Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie, were assassinated in Sarajevo, leading to World War I. From 1918 until 1992, the country was a part of the former Yugoslavia. After a 3-year long war, Bosnia and Herzegovina proclaimed independence as a country consiting mostly of Serbs, Croats and Bosnian Muslims.
This is a list of the ten largest towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only Sarajevo and Banja Luka have more than 200,000 people.
Bosnia and Herzegovina has produced many athletes. Many of them were famous in the Yugoslav national teams before Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence.
The most important international sporting event in the history of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the hosting of the 14th Winter Olympics, held in Sarajevo.
The Borac handball club has won seven Yugoslav Handball Championships, as well as the European Championship Cup in 1976 and the International Handball Federation Cup in 1991.
The Bosna basketball club from Sarajevo were European Champions in 1979. The Yugoslav national basketball team medaled in every world championship from 1963 through 1990. The team included Bosnian players such as Dražen Dalipagić and Mirza Delibašić. Bosnia and Herzegovina regularly qualifies for the European Championship in Basketball. Jedinstvo Aida women's basketball club, based in Tuzla, has won the 1989 European Championships in Florence.
Bosnia has many world-class basketball players, notably Mirza Teletović, the first Bosnian in the NBA. Among others are, Elmedin Kikanović, Nihad Đedović, Ognjen Kuzmić, Jusuf Nurkić, Nedžad Sinanović, and Nemanja Mitrović.
The Tuzla-Sinalco karate club from Tuzla has won the most Yugoslav championships, as well as four European Championships and one World Championship.
The Bosnian chess team has been Champion of Yugoslavia seven times. In addition the club ŠK Bosna Sarajevo won four Chess Club Cup : 1994 in Lyon, 1999 in Bugojno, 2000 in Neum, and 2001 in Kallithea Elassonos. Chess grandmaster Borki Predojević has also won European Championships: Under-12 years Litochoro (Greece) in 1999, and Under-14 years Kallithea Elassonos (Greece) in 2001, and in 2003 won World Championship Under-16 years Halkidiki (Greece).
Middle-weight boxer Marijan Beneš has won several Championships of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslav Championships and the European Championship. In 1978 he won the World Title against Elisha Obed from the Bahamas. Another middle-weight boxer, Anton Josipović won the Olympic Gold in Los Angeles, 1984. He also won Yugoslav Championship in 1982, the Championship of the Balkans in 1983, and the Belgrade Trophy in 1985.
Association football is the most popular sport in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It dates from 1903, but its popularity grew significantly after World War I. At the local level, FK Sarajevo (1967 and 1984), Željezničar (1972) have both won the Yugoslav Championship. The former Yugoslav national football team has included a number of Bosnian players, such as Josip Katalinski, Blaž Slišković, Dušan Bajević, Enver Marić, Mehmed Baždarević, Ivica Osim, Safet Sušić, Vahidin Musemić and Mirsad Fazlagić.
Today, the team of Bosnia and Herzegovina has modern footballers like Edin Džeko, Zvjezdan Misimović, Vedad Ibišević, Emir Spahić, Asmir Begović, Miralem Pjanić, Sejad Salihović, Senad Lulić and others. The independent Bosnia and Herzegovina national football team has not qualified for a European or World Championship but has played twice in the play-off stages.
Bosnian national teams have struggled to draft the best national players. Many players born in Bosnia and Herzegovina choose to play for other countries because of their ethnic identification. For example, Nikica Jelavić and Vedran Ćorluka were both born in Bosnia and Herzegovina but play for Croatia. Other internationally famous players from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have made similar choices, are: Dejan Lovren, Mladen Petrić, Mario Stanić, Neven Subotić, Zlatan Ibrahimović, Marko Marin, Boris Živković, Zlatko Junuzović, Savo Milošević, and Zdravko Kuzmanović.
Bosnia and Herzegovina was the world champion of volleyball at the 2004 Summer Paralympics and 2012 Summer Paralympics. Many among those on the team lost their legs in the Bosnian War.
Bosnian cuisine uses many spices, in moderate quantities. Most dishes are light, as they are cooked in lots of water. The sauces are fully natural, with little more than the natural juices of the vegetables in the dish. Typical ingredients include tomatoes, potatoes, onions, garlic, peppers, cucumbers, carrots, cabbage, mushrooms, spinach, zucchini, dried beans, fresh beans, plums, milk, paprika and cream called Pavlaka. Bosnian cuisine is balanced between Western and Eastern influences. As a result of the Ottoman administration for almost 500 years, Bosnian food is closely related to Turkish, Greek, and other former Ottoman and Mediterranean cuisines. However, because of years of Austrian rule, there are many influences from Central Europe. Typical meat dishes include mostly beef and lamb. Some local specialties are ćevapi, burek, dolma, sarma, pilaf, goulash, ajvar and a whole range of Eastern sweets. Local wines come from Herzegovina where the climate is suitable for growing grapes. Herzegovinian loza (similar to Italian Grappa but less sweet) is very popular. Plum or apple alcohol beverages are made in the north. In the south, distilleries used to produce vast quantities of brandy. Brandy is the base of most alcoholic drinks.
Coffeehouses, where Bosnian coffee is served in džezva with rahat lokum and sugar cubes, are in many places in Sarajevo and every city in the country. Coffee drinking is a favorite Bosnian pastime and part of the culture. Bosnians are believed to be some of the heaviest coffee drinkers in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="20296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20296" title="Black bass">
Black bass

A black bass is a type of fresh water fish. The black basses are found throughout a large area east of the Rocky Mountains in North America, from the Hudson Bay basin in Canada to northeastern Mexico. Several species, notably the Largemouth and Smallmouth have been very widely introduced throughout the world. Black bass of all species are highly sought-after game fish, and bass fishing is an extremely popular sport. These fish are well known as strong fighters, and taste good. 
Black bass are found in running and still waters, with or without aquatic vegetation (plants that live in water). they need food and some form of cover. Generally, they can tolerate a wide range of water clarities and bottom types. Most prefer water temperatures from 20 to 30°C, and are often found at depths less than 20 feet. Smallmouth prefer clear water and usually like deeper water than Largemouth.
The feeding habits of bass change with its size. Young fish mainly feed on microscopic animals (plankton). Fingerling bass eat insects and small fishes. Adult bass will eat whatever is available, including fish, crabs, frogs, salamanders, snakes, mice, turtles, and even birds. 
Age and growth - Growth rates are highly variable with differences attributed mainly to their food supply and length of growing season. Female bass live longer than males and are much more likely to reach trophy size. By age two or three, females grow much faster than male bass. At five years of age females may be twice the weight of males. The oldest bass from Florida whose age has been determined by fisheries' biologists was 16 years of age.
The largemouth bass is a very popular fresh water game fish. Much of its popularity is due to its aggressive attitude and willingness to strike a lure or bait with explosive force. They can be caught with almost every bait. The value of the largemouth as a sport fish has prompted a movement toward Catch-and-release fishing. 
A bass of 22 pounds, 4 ounces was caught in Montgomery Lake, Georgia (U.S. state) in 1932. 
Sport fishing for Black bass, particularly largemouth and smallmouth, has seen extraordinary growth in popularity. In Texas alone, fishermen spent $28 billion on equipment, licenses and fishing trips in 1996. That same year Texas sport fishing was responsible for creating 80,000 jobs and brought in over $180 million to the state in taxes. Many talented fishermen have turned the sport of bass fishing into a business by becoming a professional and competing in tournaments. Kevin VanDam is the top-rated money winner in professional bass fishing, having earned more than $5.6 million.

</doc>
<doc id="20297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20297" title="Reinheitsgebot">
Reinheitsgebot

The Reinheitsgebot is a regulation about the purity of beer. The regulation started in Ingolstadt, in Bavaria, in Germany, in 1516.
The regulation says several things:
Some people talk about the "Bavarian" Reinheitsgebot, or the "German" Reinheitsgebot. They all mean the same thing. There are similar acts in the other states which later became known as Germany.
The Reinheitsgebot is no longer part of German law. It has been replaced by the Provisional German Beer Law
, which allows things prohibited in the "Reinheitsgebot", such as wheat malt and cane sugar, but which no longer allows unmalted barley.
Yeast was not a part of beer until Louis Pasteur discovered what it did during fermentation. This was around the year 1800. Brewers (the people brewing beer) usually re-used some of the sediments of the fermentation. They took some sediments of an older brew and added those sediments to the next brew.
Hops were added as a method of preservation (to stop the beer going bad quickly). Hops were allowed to stop other things (like adding certain mushrooms to the beer, which was done in the Middle Ages) being done to preserve beer. Other herbs, like stinging nettles had been used. The stinging nettle is part of the same plant family as hops.
A brewer who broke the "Reinheitsgebot" was punished: The beer barrels were taken by the state and destroyed and he/she did not receive any money for the loss.
Even today, many brewers are proud of the "Reinheitsgebot"; most German breweries say they follow it. Some only use it as a marketing tool. The "Reinheitsgebot' says that beer is made of barley, so all wheat beers were not allowed by the original Reinheitsgebot).
Belgian beers are different. The brewers often add sugar (to boost fermentation). Nevertheless, Belgian beers have a brewing tradition at least as long as those of Germany. They taste totally different from the German ones.

</doc>
<doc id="20298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20298" title="Maß">
Maß

A Maß or Mass is an old unit of measurement of liquid. Literally translated, it means "mass". It is equal to 1.069 litre. Today, it is only used for measuring quantities of beer (one litre). Beer is usually served as 0.2 or 0.3 l ("small beer") or as 0.5 l ("big beer"), but at some occasions (like the Oktoberfest) and some places it is also served as a "Maß".
Usually this Maß is served in special mugs. These used to be made of ceramics, especially clay. During the 19th and 20th centuries most were replaced by ones made of glass.

</doc>
<doc id="20299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20299" title="Wolverine">
Wolverine

The wolverine or glutton ("Gulo gulo") is the largest member of the Mustelidae family (the weasels). It is a stocky and muscular carnivore, more like a small bear than other mustelids. The wolverine, a solitary animal, has a reputation for ferocity, and can kill prey many times larger than itself. It is a powerful and versatile predator and scavenger.
There is a clear difference between two subspecies: the Old World form "Gulo gulo gulo" and the New World form "G. g. luscus". 
The male is about tall, the female . Their length ranges from (female) to (male) and they reach a weight of around . Their tail measures about . Their brown fur protects them from the extremely cold temperatures and their big feet enable them to walk on top of snow.
 Wolverines live primarily in isolated arctic and alpine regions of northern Canada, Alaska, Siberia, and Scandinavia. they are also native to European Russia, the Baltic countries, northeast China and Mongolia. In 2008 and 2009, wolverines were sighted as far south as the Sierra Nevada, near Lake Tahoe, for the first time since 1922. They are also found in low numbers in the Rocky Mountains and northern Cascades of the United States, and have been sighted as far south and east as Michigan. However, most New World wolverines live in Canada.
Wolverines feed on almost every type of food that they can find: mice, rats, birds, bird eggs, reindeer and other large prey. Wolverines prefer to hunt larger prey in winter, when the snow slows down the prey and gives the wolverine an advantage.
Wolverines are highly territorial. Wolverines reproduce every two or three years. The female gives birth to one to three young (called kits) in a tunnel called a den deep underneath snowdrifts.
Humans are the wolverine’s main enemy. The wolverine’s thick, warm fur is used to manufacture the trim of a parka's hood or other winter clothes, as the dense guard hairs do not collect frost.
In February 2013, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service proposed giving Endangered Species Act protections to the wolverine largely because climate change (global warming) is whittling away its wintry habitat in the northern Rockies.

</doc>
<doc id="20300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20300" title="Bismarck (ship)">
Bismarck (ship)

The German battleship Bismarck was one of the most famous warships of World War II. It only sailed for one mission, Operation "Rheinübung", before sinking in the Atlantic Ocean. Nearly 3500 seamen lost their lives in the battle which lasted around 8 days.
The whole ship with all the oil reserves weighed 53165 tonnes. It was about long and wide. 
The ship had eight big guns: cannons, called the heavy artillery. There were 12 smaller cannons, and several anti-aircraft "FLAK" cannons too. 
It had very thick armour, even for warships today. The thickest plating was around the heavy artillery, where the metal was thick.
First the "Bismarck" had to reach the open sea. This because it was a huge battleship few other ships would be able to get close enough to attack without being destroyed, so it could control a large area of sea.
The first problem the "Bismarck" had was how to pass the British Isles. It took the way near the Fjords of Norway. There it met the other German ship "Prinz Eugen". Both ships reached the open sea in the Denmark straits. The Royal Navy's battleships HMS Hood and HMS Prince of Wales were sent to sink the "Bismarck". The "Hood" lost this battle. The "Hood" was more than a ship for the British military leaders. It was kind of a myth. So the British Navy sent a large number of ships to hunt the "Bismarck". There were some cruisers, many battleships and some aircraft-carriers. There was a very dramatic hunt, because the Bismarck was damaged but escaped from the nearest British ships. 
Finally the "Bismarck" was found by a some aircraft from one of the ships, and its rudder and propeller were broken by the torpedoes they carried. then the British battleships, HMS King George V and HMS Rodney moved down to their shortest range (3km) and fired straight into the ships towers, one 16 inch shell hit the bridge and killed the captain and the German admiral. Now the Bismarck could not move, send radio or fight back due to its fire control taking a direct hit, and it was already taking on water due to its duel with HMS Hood, and the abandon ship order had been given so all the of the British ships, except two cruisers to pick the German sailors, left the Bismarck. But they had to leave lots behind because a U-boat (U49) had been sent to find and take the Bismarcks log book back to Germany. With the risk of the Bismarck being captured, her sailors seriously damaged her, and she sank at 10:39. Over 2000 men went down with her.

</doc>
<doc id="20302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20302" title="Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina">
Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina


</doc>
<doc id="20305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20305" title="Republic of Mahabad">
Republic of Mahabad

The Republic of Mahabad (also Republic of Kurdistan), established in Iranian Kurdistan, was the second independent Kurdish state of the 20th century after the Republic of Ararat in Turkey. Its capital was the Kurdish city of Mahabad in northwestern Iran. The Republic was part of the Iran crisis a conflict between the United States and USSR.
The republic was led by President Qazi Muhammad and Minister of Defense Mustafa Barzani. Prime Minister was Hadschi Baba Scheich. The Republic of Mahabad declared independence on January 22, 1946, but the movement was defeated a year later by the army of the central government of Iran. . After the collapse of the republic in 1947, Qazi Muhammad was hanged in public in Chuwarchira Square in the center of Mahabad.
Massoud Barzani, the current President of Iraqi Kurdistan, was born in Mahabad when his father, the late General Mustafa Barzani, was chief of the military of Mahabad declared in Iranian Kurdistan .
Archibald Roosevelt son of the former US-President Theodore Roosevelt, wrote in "The Kurdish Republic of Mahabad", that a main problem of the peoples Republic of Mahabad, was the kurds needed the power of the USSR. Only with the Red army they had a chance. But these close relationship to Stalin and the USSR let many kurdish tribes to be in opposition with this kurdish state. 

</doc>
<doc id="20307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20307" title="Coat of Arms of Iran">
Coat of Arms of Iran

The Emblem of Iran was made after the Islamic Revolution in that country, in 1979. After the revolution, Iran decided to use a new flag. The old flag had a picture of a golden lion and a sabre, that was a symbol for the Shah (king) of Iran. This emblem is a symbol for the whole country and the Islamic character of the new government. It is drawn to look like a version of the word الله which means "God" in Persian (the language of Iran) and also in the Arabic language. It looks like a tulip, which is an old symbol for Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="20310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20310" title="Category:Kurds">
Category:Kurds

This category is about the kurds and their history, cities, culture and so on.

</doc>
<doc id="20311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311" title="Category:Kurdish people">
Category:Kurdish people

This category is for articles about famous Kurdish people. For example actors, politicians, writer and so on.

</doc>
<doc id="20314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20314" title="Tennis">
Tennis

Tennis is a sport played with a felt-covered rubber ball, a racket, and a court.
First, early in the 11th century, players in France played this sport with their hands. It was called “Jeu de Paume”. In the 15th century the sport came to Poland and the players played with rackets. Now it is called “tennis”. It became popular in England and France. King Henry III was a big fan of the game.
There are many different kinds of courts, like grass, clay, or gravel. The goal of tennis is to hit the ball over the net into the other player’s court. When the other player cannot return the ball, a point is won. The game is played with two or four people. When it is played with two people, it is called “singles”, and when it is played with four people, it is called “doubles”. The court has "alleys" on each side, which are "fair" territory when playing doubles. 
A tennis game has a number of sets. Each set has a number of games, and each game has points. The points are counted love (0, after the French l'oeuf), fifteen (15), thirty (30), and forty (40). If both players get to forty, the score is "deuce" from which 2 more points are needed to win the game. When one player reaches six games, it is one set. If it is a three-set match, the player who wins two sets first is the winner. If the game count reaches 5–5, the set must be won with two more games than the other player, like 7–5 or 8–6. If the game count gets to 6–6, a "tiebreaker" is played. In a tiebreak, players have to get at least seven points while getting two more points than the other player to win the set. In tiebreak points are called “one,” “two,” etc.
The game started in Germany during the 1700s. Tennis is now a sport that is played at the Olympics. They also have big tournaments like the U.S. Open, Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon. These four are known as Grand Slam events. Tennis’s official name is "lawn tennis". Since 1998, every September 23 has been called "Tennis Day". 
There is also soft tennis. Soft tennis is different from regulation tennis. For example, the racket, ball and rules are much different. Soft tennis is popular in Japan. Thousands of people play soft tennis. Tennis is quite a popular sport which lots of people enjoy watching. 
There are many different "shots" and "strokes", ways to hit the ball, in tennis. A stroke is the way the body is moved to hit the ball. A shot is how the ball is hit. These include:
Winning all four Grand Slams in the same year is called a Calendar Slam.
They are the most important tennis tournaments of each season (year). This is because of the world ranking points, tradition, prize-money, and public attention.

</doc>
<doc id="20315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20315" title="Category:American Civil War">
Category:American Civil War

Articles about the American Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="20316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20316" title="Teacher">
Teacher

A teacher is a person who helps people to learn. A teacher often works in a classroom. There are many different kinds of teachers. Some teachers teach young children in kindergarten or primary schools. Others teach older children in middle, junior high and high schools. Some teachers teach adults in more advanced schools (for example, colleges and universities). Some are called professors.
There are different ways of teaching. Most teachers use a variety of methods to teach. Teachers often explain new knowledge, write on a blackboard or whiteboard, sit behind their desks on chairs, help students with their work, or mark students' work. They may use a computer to write tests, assignments or report cards for the class.

</doc>
<doc id="20323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20323" title="Getafe">
Getafe

Getafe is a city 15 km south of Madrid, in the Community of Madrid, Spain. 158,363 people live there. It has great commercial and industrial activity and many mass media. In Getafe there is a university, a military air base, and has a football team in the first division of the Spanish's League.

</doc>
<doc id="20327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20327" title="Manhattan Project">
Manhattan Project

The Manhattan Project was the program based in the United States which tried to make the first nuclear weapons. The project went on during World War II, and was run by the U.S. Army. The head of the project was General Leslie R. Groves, who had led the building of the Pentagon. The top scientist on the project was Robert Oppenheimer, a famous physicist. The project cost $2 billion, and created many secret cities and bomb-making factories, such as a laboratory in Los Alamos, New Mexico, a nuclear reactor in Hanford, Washington, and a uranium processing plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. 
The Manhattan Project had to find solutions to two difficulties. The first difficulty is how to make the special isotopes of uranium or plutonium. This process is called separation and is very slow. The United States built very big buildings with machines for separation. They made enough fissionable special isotopes for a few nuclear weapons. The second difficulty was how to make a bomb that will produce a big nuclear explosion every time. A weapon with a broken design will often make a much smaller nuclear explosion. This is called a "fizzle". In July 1945, the Manhattan Project solved the two difficulties and made the first nuclear explosion. This test of a nuclear weapon was called "Trinity" and was a success.
The Manhattan Project created two nuclear bombs which the United States used against Japan in 1945.
The Manhattan Project operated under a blanket of tight security. This was to prevent the Axis countries, especially Nazi Germany, from accelerating their own nuclear projects or undertaking covert operations against the project. The possibility of sabotage was always present. At times, people suspected sabotage when equipment failed. While there were some problems believed to be the result of careless or disgruntled employees, there were no confirmed instances of Axis-instigated sabotage. However, on 10 March 1945, a Japanese fire balloon struck a power line, and the resulting power surge caused the three reactors at Hanford to be temporarily shut down.
Maintaining security was difficult because so many people worked on the project. A special Counter Intelligence Corps detachment handled the project's security issues. By 1943, it was clear that the Soviet Union was trying to penetrate the project. Lieutenant Colonel Boris T. Pash, the head of the Counter Intelligence Branch of the Western Defense Command, investigated suspected Soviet espionage at the Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley. Oppenheimer informed Pash that he had been approached by a fellow professor at Berkeley, Haakon Chevalier, about passing information to the Soviet Union.
The most successful Soviet spy was Klaus Fuchs. Fuchs was a member of the British Mission who played an important part at Los Alamos. The 1950 revelation of Fuchs' espionage activities damaged the United States' nuclear cooperation with Britain and Canada. Subsequently, other instances of espionage were uncovered, leading to the arrest of Harry Gold, David Greenglass and Ethel and Julius Rosenberg. Other spies like George Koval remained unknown for decades. People will never know the value of the espionage. One reason was that the Soviet atomic bomb project was held back by a shortage of uranium ore. The consensus is that espionage saved the Soviets one or two years of effort.

</doc>
<doc id="20330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20330" title="Hadschi Baba Scheich">
Hadschi Baba Scheich

Hadschi Baba Scheich (Haji Baba Sheikh) ("Hacî Baba Şêx" in Kurdish) was the prime minister of the Republic of Mahabad. After the republic was conquered by the Iranian army in 1947 he was the only one who was not hanged together with president Qazi Muhammad at the Chuwarchira Square in Mahabad in 1947. He was immune because of his religious standing. The journalist and lyric Hemin Mukriyani was his secretary during the republic.

</doc>
<doc id="20331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20331" title="Ajam">
Ajam

Ajam (عجم) in Arabic means non-Arabic-speaker. Ajam is an Arabic word that came from Jam the name of a king or prophet according to old story he was the king of world. 
The early use of the term included all of the peoples with whom the Arabs had contact including Persians, Pakistanis, Greeks, Ethiopians, and the somewhat related Nabataeans.
During the early age of the Caliphates, Ajam was often meant the same thing as barbarian. In some cases it was a word that was used as a way of making people seem like they were not as good as them. In the Middle East, it was usually used to the Persians. In Turkish, the usage of the term is not used to any group of people from a country, but instead seems to have changed from the original Arabic usage for outsiders and turned into a different meaning as the term "ajemi" (in modern Turkish "acemi") which means "clumsy", "inept" or "novice".

</doc>
<doc id="20333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20333" title="Boston Terrier">
Boston Terrier

Boston Terriers are a breed of dog. They are considered to be one of the few American breeds as they can trace their origins to Boston, Massachusetts. It's hard to believe that these comical, family friendly dogs were originally bred to be ferocious pit-fighting dogs tracing their ancestors to an English Bulldog and the now extinct English White Terrier. 
They are usually very small, but can also be bred as medium sized dogs. They are considered to be cute dogs and are getting ever more popular. They are in many commercials and many celebrities have them.
Boston Terriers are a smart breed of dogs. They can be extremely hyperactive, but overall are well behaved with training. Their excitement and enthusiasm is a perk of their personality. They are compactly built with short, round heads, short tails, but strong limbs. They have a smooth coat, with colors of brindle, seal brown or black and evenly marked with white.
Boston Terriers are inside dogs that love affection. This breed is balanced with being independent (sometimes stubborn) and affectionate and wanting attention from humans. They require very little work when a part of a family and they are good dogs for children. 
Caring for a Boston Terrier requires little work. With a short coat, Bostons might need a bath every one to two weeks. Brushing is not necessary although it helps remove loose hair and reduces shedding. Bostons love rawhides (a chewy animal skin) and other chew toys that help with keeping their teeth healthy. Brushing your dog's teeth is recommended by vets for any breed. Boston Terriers do have sensitive stomachs and will eat grass when their stomach is upset but for the most part, this breed does not have restrictions on what they can eat. 

</doc>
<doc id="20334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20334" title="1750s">
1750s


</doc>
<doc id="20337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20337" title="1798">
1798


</doc>
<doc id="20338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20338" title="1160">
1160


</doc>
<doc id="20339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20339" title="1169">
1169


</doc>
<doc id="20340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20340" title="1196">
1196


</doc>
<doc id="20341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20341" title="1793">
1793


</doc>
<doc id="20342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20342" title="1800">
1800


</doc>
<doc id="20343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20343" title="Vigdís Finnbogadóttir">
Vigdís Finnbogadóttir


</doc>
<doc id="20344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20344" title="Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson">
Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson

Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson (born May 14, 1943) is an Icelanic politician. He served as the fifth President of Iceland, from 1996 to 2016, re-elected without opposition in 2000, and was re-elected in 2004, 2008, and 2012. 
He was born in Ísafjörður, Iceland.
From 1962 to 1970, he studied economics and political science at the University of Manchester. He was a professor at the University of Iceland for political science, served as a Member of the Althing, and was the Minister of Finance (1988–1991).
He married Guðrún Katrín Þorbergsdóttir in 1974, who gave birth to twin daughters the following year. Guðrún Katrín was very popular in Iceland, and her charm is without a doubt one of the main reasons her husband was elected; she charmed the nation from the start of his campaign. Her death from cancer in 1998 was a shock to the nation and her family. 
Ólafur's second marriage was to Dorrit Moussaieff to whom he had been engaged since May 2000. This took place on his 60th birthday May 14, 2003.
He announced in his new year's message on 1 January 2016, that he would be stepping down from the presidency at the end of his fifth term, namely on 1 August 2016. He left office on 1 August 2016. He was succeeded by Guðni Th. Jóhannesson.

</doc>
<doc id="20346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20346" title="1811">
1811


</doc>
<doc id="20347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347" title="Coral Springs, Florida">
Coral Springs, Florida

Coral Springs is a planned city in Florida, United States. It was founded on July 10, 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="20348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20348" title="1560s">
1560s


</doc>
<doc id="20349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20349" title="Affenpinscher">
Affenpinscher

Affenpinscher is a small breed (type) of dog in the toy group. These dogs originally came from Germany and are known to have existed since the 1600s. Their name comes from the German word "Affe," which means "monkey," because their faces remind people of monkeys. Originally, the dog was bred to be a "ratter," a type of dog that kills rats and mice in homes, farms, and stables. Now that mice are not so commonly found in the home, Affenpinschers are usually just kept as pets. 
The Affenpinscher is a very small kind of dog, weighing between 3kg and 6kg (6lbs to 13lbs) and standing between 23cm and 30cm (9 and 12 inches) at the shoulder. Their face is flat and "monkey-like." The most common and preferred colour of fur for this breed is black, but they can also come in grey, beige, and other colours. In the American Kennel Club, a good example of these dogs could be any colour; in the French and British Kennel Clubs they must only be black.
Affenpinschers are not terriers, but they do look and act a lot like terriers. Even though they were bred to hunt mice, they do not like to chase other animals, so they can happily live with other pets. They are playful but very stubborn. These dogs can be difficult to train, because they do not like to listen to instructions and often become bored. Affenpinschers are somewhat territorial (protective) when it comes to their toys and food, so they are not recommended for homes with very small children.
This dog is mostly quiet, and does not bark much. It can become very excited if attacked, and shows no fear toward any aggressor.
A small study showed that these dogs live an average of 11.4 years, which is not very long for a small dog; small dogs usually live 14-15 years. One of their most common health problems is bladder disease, which happens most often when the dogs are older (8 years and up.) Their short faces can make it difficult for them to breathe and exercise in hot weather. Like many kinds of dogs, Affenpinschers often get a disease called hip dysplasia which makes it difficult for them to run or walk. 

</doc>
<doc id="20350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20350" title="Yorkshire Terrier">
Yorkshire Terrier

The Yorkshire Terrier or Yorkie is a small breed of terrier dog. It originated in the United Kingdom in the town of Yorkshire, from where it gets its name.
They were first bred to catch mice and rats, so they are often fast and energetic. Yorkies usually weigh about 7 pounds (3.18 kg) and have a dark gray or black coat with a brown face. According to the American Kennel Club (AKC), Yorkies are the second most popular dog breed in America, behind only the Labrador Retriever. They are really playfull, they will always want to play.

</doc>
<doc id="20351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20351" title="The Chiffons">
The Chiffons

The Chiffons was an all-woman singing group. They started in New York City in 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="20352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20352" title="Mott the Hoople">
Mott the Hoople

Mott the Hoople was a English hard rock/glam rock band. They formed in 1969 and broke up in 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="20353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20353" title="Turner &amp; Hooch">
Turner &amp; Hooch

Turner & Hooch is an American movie that was released in 1989. It starred Tom Hanks as Detective Turner and Beasley the Dog as Hooch. It was a very successful movie.

</doc>
<doc id="20354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20354" title="The Temptations">
The Temptations

The Temptations are a successful R&B singing group. They formed in Detroit, USA in 1960. The Temptations have four Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles and 14 Billboard R&B number-one singles. They have three Grammy Awards. The Temptations were the first Motown act to earn a Grammy Award.

</doc>
<doc id="20355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20355" title="Brenda Lee">
Brenda Lee

Brenda Mae Tarpley or Brenda Lee (born December 11, 1944 in Atlanta, Georgia) is an American pop singer. She was popular in the 1960s. She stood tall and was called “Little Miss Dynamite” because of her strong voice. She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2002.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="20356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20356" title="Buddy Clark">
Buddy Clark

Buddy Clark (July 26, 1912 - October 1, 1949) was a pop singer popular in the 1930s and 1940s.

</doc>
<doc id="20357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357" title="Air Supply">
Air Supply

Air Supply is a pop music singing group. They formed in Melbourne, Australia in 1976.
The current members are Russell Hitchcock (born June 15, 1949 in Melbourne) and Graham Russell (born June 1, 1950 in Nottingham, England). In 1981 they got with their song "The One That You Love" a number one hit in the United States. They had their most popular times during the early 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="20358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20358" title="Sex Pistols">
Sex Pistols

The Sex Pistols were the first popular punk group in Britain. They were only together for two years, in the late 1970s, and they were known for their rowdy behaviour more than their music. The music they made gave many new artists a big influence on their music, mostly in the alternative music and punk scenes.
The members in the band were Johnny Rotten (vocals), Paul Cook (drums), Steve Jones (guitar) and Glen Matlock (bass). Sid Vicious later replaced Matlock on bass. They recorded only one studio album, called "Never Mind the Bollocks - Here's the Sex Pistols". One of their most famous songs is "Anarchy In The UK".

</doc>
<doc id="20360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20360" title="Walter Murphy">
Walter Murphy

Walter Murphy (b. December 19, 1952) is a classically trained American pianist. He was born in New York City. He had a hit song in the late 1970s, "A Fifth of Beethoven".

</doc>
<doc id="20362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20362" title="1570s">
1570s


</doc>
<doc id="20364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20364" title="Bette Davis">
Bette Davis

Bette Davis (April 5, 1908 - October 5, 1989) was an American actress of the stage, cinema and television. She was born in Lowell, Massachusetts. She was nicknamed "The Queen of Hollywood", the "First Lady of the American Screen" and "The Fifth Warner Brother" during her career.
Davis had the most Academy Award nominations for any actress (with ten) until Katharine Hepburn took her place with twelve. 
In 1981 Kim Carnes sang the hit song "Bette Davis Eyes". Davis liked the song. Carnes gave Davis a gold record. Davis hung the gold record on a wall.
The Kennedy Center honored Davis in 1987. She died of breast cancer in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France.

</doc>
<doc id="20365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20365" title="Gunpowder Plot">
Gunpowder Plot

The Gunpowder Conspiracy of 1605 was a plan to kill King James I of England and VI of Scotland. Other names for the plot are The Powder Treason or The Gunpowder Plot. A group of Catholics wanted to blow up the Houses of Parliament during the State Opening on 5 November 1605. This would have killed the king, and most of the Protestant aristocracy.
The conspirators also planned to kidnap the royal children, and lead a popular revolt in the Midlands.
Robert Catesby led the planning of the conspiracy, which started in May 1604. The people who helped him were either rich Catholics, or gentry families who had a lot of influence. Catesby may have come up with the plot when he saw that there was little hope that Great Britain would become more tolerant to Roman Catholics, under King James I. Many Catholics were disappointed about the situation. It is more likely though that Catesby simply wanted to give the Catholics in England a chance: The plot was to be the first step of a rebellion. Afterwards, James' nine-year-old daughter (Princess Elizabeth) could be put in as a Catholic head of state. 
Other plotters were Thomas Winter (also spelled Wintour), Robert Winter, John Wright, Christopher Wright, Robert Keyes, Thomas Percy (also spelled Percye), John Grant, Ambrose Rokewood, Sir Everard Digby, Francis Tresham and Thomas Bates (Catesby's servant). The explosives were prepared by Guy "Guido" Fawkes, a man with 10 years military experience. Fawkes had fought with the Spanish against the Dutch in the Spanish Netherlands.
The main Jesuit in England, Father Henry Garnet was said to know the details of the plot. Oswald Tesimond, a fellow Jesuit had told him. Robert Catesby confessed them to Tesimond, and gave him the permission to tell Garnet. Although he was convicted, there has since been some debate over how much Garnet really knew. As the details of the plot were known through confession, Garnet was not allowed to reveal them to the authorities. He did not think it was a good idea. Nevertheless, the plot went ahead. Garnet's opposition to it did not save him from being hanged, drawn and quartered for treason in 1606, though.
In the 17th century, the Palace of Westminster was made of many buildings, spread over a large area. They were grouped around the medieval chambers, chapels, and halls of the old royal palace. This palace housed both Parliament and the various law courts. The palace was also easier to access than it is today. Merchants, lawyers, and other people lived and worked on the palace grounds.
As a member of the King's Bodyguard, Percy was able to lease rooms next to the House of Lords, in May 1604. The plotters' original idea was to dig their way under the foundations of the Lords chamber to put the gunpowder there. The main idea was to kill James, but many other important targets would be present, including most of the Protestant nobility and senior bishops of the Church of England. Guy Fawkes, as "John Johnson", was put in charge of this building, where he posed as Percy's servant. Catesby's house in Lambeth was used to store the gunpowder with the tools for digging. 
However, when the Black Plague came back to London in the summer of 1604 and it proved to be particularly severe. For this reason, the opening of Parliament was changed to 1605. By Christmas Eve, the miners had still not reached the buildings of Parliament, and just as they restarted work early in 1605, they learned that the opening of Parliament had been further postponed to 3 October. The plotters then took the opportunity to row the gunpowder up the Thames from Catesby's house in Lambeth, to hide it in their new rented house: they had learned (by chance) that a coal merchant named Ellen Bright had vacated a ground-floor undercroft directly beneath the House of Lords chamber. Presented with this golden opportunity, Percy immediately took pains to secure the lease. He created the story that his wife would join him in London and that he would need the extra storage space. 
Fawkes assisted in filling the room with gunpowder, which was hidden beneath a wood store under the House of Lords building, in a cellar leased from John Whynniard. By March 1605, they had filled the undercroft underneath the House of Lords with 36 barrels of gunpowder, hidden under a store of winter fuel. Had all 36 barrels been successfully ignited, the explosion could easily have reduced many of the buildings in the Old Palace of Westminster complex to rubble, and would have blown out windows in the surrounding area of about a one kilometre radius. 
The conspirators left London in May, and went to their homes or to different areas of the country, because being seen together would arouse suspicion. They arranged to meet again in September; however, the opening of Parliament was again postponed. 
The weakest parts of the plot were the arrangements for the subsequent rebellion which would have swept the country and installed a Catholic monarch. Due to the requirements for money and arms, Sir Francis Tresham was eventually admitted to the plot, and it was probably he who betrayed the plot in writing to his brother-in-law Lord Monteagle. An anonymous letter revealed some of the details of the plot; it read: "I advise you to devise some excuse not to attend this parliament, for they shall receive a terrible blow, and yet shall not see who hurts them".
According to the confession made by Fawkes on Tuesday 5 November 1605, he had left Dover around Easter 1605, bound for Calais. He then travelled to Saint-Omer and on to Brussels, where he met with Hugh Owen and Sir William Stanley before making a pilgrimage to Brabant. He returned to England at the end of August or early September, again by way of Calais.
Guy Fawkes was left in charge of executing the plot, while the other conspirators fled to Dunchurch in Warwickshire to await news. Once Parliament had been destroyed, the other conspirators planned to start a revolt in the Midlands.
During the preparation, several of the conspirators had been concerned about the safety of fellow Catholics who would be present in Parliament on the day of the planned explosion. On the evening of Friday, 26 October Lord Monteagle received an anonymous letter while at his house in Hoxton.
Monteagle had the note read out loud, possibly to warn the plotters that the secret was out, and promptly handed it over to Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury, the Secretary of State. The conspirators learned of the letter the following day, but decided to go ahead with their plan, especially after Fawkes inspected the undercroft and found that nothing had been touched. 
Having been shown the letter, the King ordered Sir Thomas Knyvet to conduct a search of the cellars underneath Parliament, which he did in the early hours of 5 November. Shortly after midnight, Fawkes was found leaving the cellar the conspirators had rented and was arrested, giving his name as John Johnson. Inside, the barrels of gunpowder were discovered hidden under piles of firewood and coal. Far from denying his intentions during the arrest, Fawkes stated that it had been his purpose to destroy the King and the Parliament. Nevertheless, Fawkes maintained his false identity and continued to insist that he was acting alone. Later in the morning, before noon, he was again interrogated. He was questioned on the nature of his accomplices, the involvement of Thomas Percy, what letters he had received from overseas and whether or not he had spoken with Hugh Owen.
A letter written by Gentleman of the Bedchamber, Sir Edward Hoby gave details of all those that would have been caught in the explosion:
On the 5th of November we began a Parliament, to which the King should have cometh in person, but refrained through a practice but that morning discovered. The plot was to have blown up the King at such time as he should have been sat in his royal throne, Nobility and Commons and with all Bishops, Judges and Doctors at one instant, and the blast to have ruined the whole estate and kingdom of England.
Fawkes was taken to the Tower of London and interrogated there under torture. Torture was forbidden, except by the express instruction of the monarch or a body such as the Privy Council or the Star Chamber. In a letter of 6 November, King James I stated:
The discovery of the Gunpowder Plot aroused a wave of national relief at the delivery of the king and his sons, and inspired in the ensuing parliament a mood of loyalty and goodwill, which Salisbury astutely exploited to extract higher subsidies for the king than any (bar one) granted in Elizabeth's reign. In his speech to both Houses on 9 November, James expounded on two emerging preoccupations of his monarchy: the Divine Right of Kings and the Catholic question. He insisted that the plot had been the work of only a few Catholics, not of the English Catholics as a whole, and he reminded the assembly to rejoice at his survival, since kings were divinely appointed and he owed his escape to a miracle.
On hearing of the failure of the plot, the conspirators fled towards Huddington Court near Worcester, a family home of Thomas and Robert Wintour. Heavy rain, however, slowed their travels. Many of them were caught by Richard Walsh, the Sheriff of Worcestershire, when they arrived in Stourbridge.
The remaining men attempted a revolt in the Midlands. This failed, coming to a dramatic end at Holbeche House in Staffordshire, where there was a shoot-out resulting in the deaths of Catesby and Percy and capture of several other principal conspirators. Jesuits and others were then rounded up in other locations in Britain, with some being killed by torture during interrogation. Robert Wintour managed to remain on the run for two months before he was captured at Hagley Park.
The conspirators were tried on 27 January 1606 in Westminster Hall. All of the plotters pleaded "Not Guilty" except for Sir Everard Digby, who attempted to defend himself on the grounds that the King had reneged on his promises of greater tolerance of Catholicism. Sir Edward Coke, the attorney general, prosecuted, and the Earl of Northampton made a speech refuting the charges laid by Sir Everard Digby. The trial lasted one day (English criminal trials generally did not exceed a single day's duration) and the verdict was never in doubt.
The trial ranked highly as a public spectacle, and there are records of up to 10 shillings being paid for entry. Four of the plotters were executed in St. Paul's Churchyard on 30 January. On 31 January, Fawkes, Winter and a number of others implicated in the conspiracy were taken to Old Palace Yard in Westminster, in front of the scene of the intended crime, where they were to be hanged, drawn and quartered.
Fawkes, although weakened by torture, cheated the executioners: when he was to be hanged until almost dead, he jumped from the gallows, breaking his neck and killing himself, thus avoiding the gruesome latter part of his execution.
Henry Garnet was executed on 3 May 1606 at St Paul's. His crime was of being the confessor of several members of the Gunpowder Plot, and as noted, he had opposed the plot. Many spectators thought that his punishment was too severe. Antonia Fraser writes:
Due to the Gunpowder Plot, many Catholics found themselves persecuted or imprisoned in the Tower of London, including the following:
Greater freedom for Catholics to worship as they chose seemed unlikely in 1604, but after the plot in 1605, changing the law to afford Catholics leniency became unthinkable; Catholic Emancipation took another 200 years. Nevertheless, many important and loyal Catholics retained high office in the kingdom during King James' reign.
Interest in the demonic was heightened by the Gunpowder Plot. The king himself had become engaged in the great debate about other-worldly powers in writing his "Daemonology" in 1597, before he became King of England as well as Scotland. The apparent devilish nature of the gunpowder plot also partly inspired William Shakespeare's "Macbeth". Demonic inversions (such as the line "fair is foul and foul is fair") are frequently seen in the play. Another possible reference made in Macbeth was to equivocation, as Henry Garnett’s "A Treatise of Equivocation" was found on one of the plotters, and a resultant fear was that Jesuits could evade the truth through equivocation:
Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
Swear in both the scales against either scale;
Who committed treason enough for God's sake,
Yet could not equivocate to heaven
- Macbeth, Act 2 Scene 3
The Gunpowder Plot was commemorated for years after the plot by special sermons and other public acts, such as the ringing of church bells. It added to an increasingly full calendar of Protestant celebrations which contributed to the national and religious life of seventeenth-century England. Through various permutations, this has evolved into the Bonfire Night of today.
Professor Ronald Hutton has considered the possible events which could have followed the successful implementation of the Gunpowder Plot, with the resultant destruction of Parliament and death of the king. He concluded that the violence of the act would have instead resulted in a more severe backlash against suspected Catholics. Without the involvement of some form of foreign aid, success would have been unlikely, as most Englishmen were loyal to the institution of the monarchy, despite differing religious convictions. England could very well have become a more "Puritan absolute monarchy", as "existed in Sweden, Denmark, Saxony, and Prussia in the seventeenth century", rather than follow the path of parliamentary and civil reform that it did.
When Parliament met in January 1606 for the first time after the plot they passed an Act of Parliament called the "Thanksgiving Act". This made services and sermons commemorating the Plot an annual feature on 5 November. The act remained in force until 1859. On 5 November 1605, it is said that the people of London celebrated the defeat of the plot with fires and street festivities. The tradition of marking the day with the ringing of church bells and bonfires started soon after the Plot and fireworks were also included in some of the earliest celebrations. In Britain the fifth of November is also called Bonfire Night, Fireworks Night or Guy Fawkes Night.
It remains the custom in Britain, on or around 5 November, to let off fireworks. Traditionally, in the weeks running up to the 5th, children made "guys"—effigies supposedly of Fawkes—usually made from old clothes stuffed with newspaper, and with a grotesque mask, to be burnt on the 5 November bonfire. These effigies would be shown in the street, to collect money for fireworks, although this practice is becoming less common. The word "guy" came thus in the 19th century to mean an oddly dressed person, and in the 20th and 21st centuries to mean any male person.
Institutions and towns may hold firework displays and bonfire parties, and the same is done on a smaller scale in back gardens throughout the country. In some areas, particularly in Sussex, there are extensive processions, large bonfires and firework displays organised by local bonfire societies; the most extensive of which takes place in Lewes.
The Houses of Parliament are still searched by the Yeomen of the Guard before the State Opening of Parliament, however, this is done as a traditional custom rather than a serious anti-terrorist precaution. 
A commemorative British two pound coin was issued in 2005 to celebrate the 400th anniversary of the plot.
The cellar in which Fawkes watched over his gunpowder was demolished in 1822. The area was further damaged in the 1834 fire and destroyed in the subsequent rebuilding of the Palace of Westminster. The lantern which Guy Fawkes carried in 1605 is in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford. A key supposedly taken from him is in Speaker's House, Palace of Westminster. These two items were shown in a major exhibition held in Westminster Hall from July to November 2005.
According to Esther Forbes (a biographer), the Guy Fawkes Day celebration in the pre-revolutionary American Colonies was a very popular holiday. In Boston, the celebration took on anti-authoritarian overtones, and often became so dangerous that many would not venture out of their homes.
In November 1930, taking advantage of the bonfires used on the holiday, Alfred Arthur Rouse murdered an unknown man and planted his body as a substitute for Rouse's in his Morris Minor (1928) automobile (which was then set alight). The scheme did not work out, and Rouse was arrested, tried and executed for the crime.
Many at the time felt that Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury had been involved in the plot to gain favour with the king and enact more stridently anti-Catholic legislation. Such theories alleged that Cecil had either actually invented the plot or allowed it to continue when his agents had already infiltrated it, for the purposes of propaganda. These rumours were the start of a long-lasting conspiracy theory about the plot. Yet while there was no "golden time" of "toleration" of Catholics which Father Garnet had hoped for at the start of James' reign, the legislative backlash had nothing to do with the plot: it had already happened by 1605, as recusancy fines were re-imposed and some priests expelled. There was no purge of Catholics from power and influence in the kingdom after the Gunpowder Plot, despite Puritan complaints. The reign of James I was, in fact, a time of relative leniency for Catholics, few being subject to prosecution.
This did not dissuade some from continuing to claim Cecil's involvement in the plot. In 1897 Father John Gerard of Stonyhurst College, namesake of a Jesuit priest who had performed Mass to some of the plotters, wrote an account called "What was the Gunpowder Plot?", alleging Cecil's culpability. This prompted a refutation later that year by Samuel Gardiner, who argued that Gerard had gone too far in trying to "wipe away the reproach" which the plot had exacted on generations of English Catholics. Gardiner portrayed Cecil as guilty of nothing more than opportunism. Subsequent attempts to prove Cecil's responsibility, such as Francis Edwards's 1969 work "Guy Fawkes: the real story of the gunpowder plot?", have similarly foundered on the lack of positive proof of any government involvement in setting up the plot. There has been little support by historians for the conspiracy theory since this time, other than to acknowledge that Cecil may have known about the plot some days before it was uncovered.
According to the historian Lady Antonia Fraser, the gunpowder was taken to the Tower of London magazine. It would have been reissued or sold for recycling if in good condition. Ordnance records for the Tower state that 18 hundredweight (equivalent to about 816 kg) of it was "decayed", which could imply that it was rendered harmless due to having separated into its component chemical parts, as happens with gunpowder when left to sit for too long—if Fawkes had ignited the gunpowder during the opening, it would only have resulted in a weak splutter. Alternatively, "decayed" may refer to the powder being damp and sticking together, making it unfit for use in firearms — in which case the explosive capabilities of the barrels would not have been significantly affected.
"", an ITV programme presented by Richard Hammond and broadcast on 1 November 2005, re-enacted the plot by blowing up an exact replica of the 17th-century House of Lords filled with test dummies, using the exact amount of gunpowder in the underground of the building. The dramatic experiment, conducted on the Advantica Spadeadam test site, proved unambiguously that the explosion would have killed all those attending the State Opening of Parliament in the Lords chamber.
The power of the explosion, which surprised even gunpowder experts, was such that seven-foot deep solid concrete walls (made deliberately to replicate how archives suggest the walls in the old House of Lords were constructed) were reduced to rubble. Measuring devices placed in the chamber to calculate the force of the blast were themselves destroyed by the blast, while the skull of the dummy representing King James, which had been placed on a throne inside the chamber surrounded by courtiers, peers and bishops, was found a large distance away from the site. According to the findings of the programme, no-one within 100 metres of the blast could have survived, while all the stained glass windows in Westminster Abbey would have been shattered, as would all windows within a large distance of the Palace. The power of the explosion would have been seen from miles away, and heard from further still. Even if only half the gunpowder had gone off, everyone in the House of Lords and its environs would have been killed instantly.
The programme also disproved claims that some deterioration in the quality of the gunpowder would have prevented the explosion. A portion of deliberately deteriorated gunpowder, at such a low quality as to make it unusable in firearms, when placed in a heap and ignited, still managed to create a large explosion. The impact of even deteriorated gunpowder would have been magnified by the impact of its compression in wooden barrels, with the compression overcoming any deterioration in the quality of the contents. The compression would have created a cannon effect, with the powder first blowing up from the top of the barrel before, a millisecond later, blowing out. In addition, mathematical calculations showed that Fawkes, who was skilled in the use of gunpowder, had used double the amount of gunpowder needed.
A sample of the gunpowder may have survived: in March 2002, workers investigating archives of John Evelyn at the British Library found a box containing various samples of gunpowder and several notes suggesting a relation to the Gunpowder Plot:

</doc>
<doc id="20366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20366" title="John Knox">
John Knox

John Knox (c. 1510 – 24 November 1572) was the man who brought the Protestant Reformation to Scotland. He was one of the founders of the Presbyterian Church. Knox joined the movement to change the Roman Catholic church in Scotland. He married twice and had five children, and continued preaching until he died.
A long-time fight between Catholic France and Protestant England for Scotland began again because of the Reformation. As the argument grew more heated, sometimes France had power, sometimes England. Knox spent many months as a galley slave; he also spent time in exile because of his Protestant beliefs. During a return visit to his native land, Knox's preaching helped the Protestant movement. Several Protestant noblemen came together and made a group called the Lords of the Congregation. When the group had more power, they invited Knox back to Scotland to stay.
During 1500 and 1561, the Scottish Parliament accepted the Reformed confession of faith made by Knox and other people. Knox argued many times with Mary, Queen of Scots. In his book "History of the Reformation in Scotland" he writes about his five "conversations" with the Roman Catholic queen. In one of these conversations, Mary asked Knox what right he had to the queen so directly and openly. Knox replied, "...I am a worm of this earth, and yet a subject...but I am a watchman, both over the realm (land) and the Kirk [Church] of God...For that reason I am bound in conscience (it is my duty) to blow the trumpet publicly (openly)". Mary's violent life finally made even her Catholic helpers lose their support. She gave up the throne. So, Knox was able to make the Protestant church in Scotland. Because of him, the Presbyterian church was made.

</doc>
<doc id="20367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20367" title="Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine">
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine

The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine is one of the Nobel Prizes which were created by Alfred Nobel. This award is decided by the Karolinska Institutet, a major medical center in Sweden. The Prize is given every year to a person or persons who have done excellent work in the area of medicine (treating or stopping disease) or physiology (the way the body works).

</doc>
<doc id="20368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20368" title="Nobel Prize in Literature">
Nobel Prize in Literature

The Nobel Prize in Literature is one of many Nobel Prizes given in honor of Alfred Nobel. Every year, a writer is chosen by the Swedish Academy to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature. They choose someone who they think has written something that has great value. 
Writing of any language could possibly win the Nobel Prize. 
List of Nobel Prize laureates (winners) in Literature from 1901 to the present date.

</doc>
<doc id="20374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20374" title="Zuni">
Zuni

The Zuni, also called Zuñi or Ashiwi are a Native American tribe. They live near the Zuni River. This river flows into the Little Colorado River, in western New Mexico, United States.
They are famous for their language, which is not like other Pueblo or Native American languages. It is a language isolate.

</doc>
<doc id="20377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20377" title="Fallacy">
Fallacy

A fallacy is an incorrect argument in logic and rhetoric. It gives a result which is not valid or lacks soundness. Fallacies are either formal fallacies or informal fallacies.
A formal fallacy is an error in logic. This shows in the argument's form. All formal fallacies are types of non sequiturs (the conclusion does not follow from the premises.
Informal fallacies – arguments that are fallacious for reasons other than structural flaws. They usually need examination of the argument's content. This is a list of examples:
Faulty generalizations – reach a conclusion from weak premises. Unlike fallacies of relevance, in fallacies of defective induction, the premises are related to the conclusions yet only weakly buttress the conclusions. A faulty generalization is thus produced.
A red herring fallacy is an error in logic where a proposition is, or is intended to be, misleading in order to make irrelevant or false inferences. In the general case any logical inference based on fake arguments, intended to replace the lack of real arguments or to replace implicitly the subject of the discussion.
Red herring – argument given in response to another argument, which is irrelevant and draws attention away from the subject of argument. "See also irrelevant conclusion."

</doc>
<doc id="20380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20380" title="Myanmar">
Myanmar

Myanmar is a country in South East Asia. Its full name is the Republic of the Union of Myanmar. It is also sometimes called Burma. Myanmar is the largest country in South East Asia that is not an island. It is also part of South Asia.
It is bordered by China on the north, Laos on the east, Thailand on the southeast, Bangladesh on the west, and the India on the northwest, with the Andaman Sea to the south, and the Bay of Bengal to the southwest. There are over of coast line.
The country was ruled by a military junta led by General Ne Win from 1962 to 1988. Its political system today stays under the tight control of its military government. In 1992, Senior General Than Shwe began ruling the country. In 2016 Htin Kyaw became the first elected civilian leader. Aung San Suu Kyi, who is prevented from becoming President by the constitution of Myanmar, will act as an advisor to Kyaw.
In 1989, the military junta officially changed the English version of its name from "Burma" to "Myanmar". It also made a new name in English for places in the country, such as its former capital city, from "Rangoon" to Yangon. The official name of the country in the Burmese language, "Myanma" did not change, however. The renaming was controversial, seen by some as linguistically bad. Accepting the name change in the English-speaking world has been slow, with many people still using the name "Burma" to refer to the country. Major news organizations like the BBC still call it Burma. Some question the military junta's authority to "officially" change the name in English in the first place. Aung San Suu Kyi, however, calls the country Myanmar now.
Myanmar had a strong kingdom in ancient times, but the nation was taken over by the British in the 1800s. It was occupied by the Empire of Japan in the 1940s. Myanmar became independent in 1948 as the Union of Burma, and had a democratic government at first. However, in 1962, a coup d'état brought the military into power, where it has been ever since. The founder of modern Myanmar, Aung San was assassinated months before independence. His daughter Aung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest many times for leading the democracy movement.
In 1991, the military junta agreed to democratic elections, which were won by the National League for Democracy, and should have made Aung San Suu Kyi the Prime Minister. However, the dictatorship ignored the results of the elections and continued ruling. In November 2005, the military government stated that the national capital would be moved from Yangon to a location near Pyinmana, which was renamed Naypyidaw in March 2006.
Since independence in 1948 and the assassination of Aung San Burma has had civil wars between its governments and minority ethnic groups like the Kachin, Karen, Shan and others. These conflicts are known as the Internal conflict in Burma.
Today, there are 14 sections. 7 are called states and the other 7 are called divisions.
The divisions are split into townships. The townships are divided into villages and wards.

</doc>
<doc id="20382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20382" title="1460s">
1460s


</doc>
<doc id="20383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20383" title="1460">
1460


</doc>
<doc id="20384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20384" title="1517">
1517


</doc>
<doc id="20385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20385" title="1554">
1554


</doc>
<doc id="20386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20386" title="1532">
1532


</doc>
<doc id="20387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20387" title="1206">
1206

1206 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="20391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20391" title="Ben Nevis">
Ben Nevis

Ben Nevis is the highest mountain in Great Britain at high. It is in Scotland, near Fort William and it is part of the Three Peaks Challenge and attracts an estimated 100,000 climbers per year,
The name comes from the Gaelic, Beinn Nibheis, meaning poisonous or terrible.
The summit of Ben Nevis is a large stony plateau of about . The highest point is marked with a large stone mound which sits an Ordnance Survey trig point.
The ruined walls of an observatory are also on the summit. An emergency shelter has been built on top of the observatory tower for people caught out by bad weather, and, although the base of the tower is slightly lower than the true summit of the mountain, the roof of the shelter is higher than the trig point by several feet, making it the highest man-made structure in the UK. A war memorial to the dead of World War II is located next to the observatory.
On 17 May 2006, a piano that had been buried under one of the cairns on the peak was uncovered by the John Muir Trust, which owns much of the mountain. The piano is believed to have been carried up for charity by removal men from Dundee over 20 years earlier.
The view from the UK's highest point can reach to over , and mountains such as the Torridon Hills, Morven in Caithness, Lochnagar, Ben Lomond, Barra Head and Knocklayd in County Antrim, Northern Ireland can be seen.

</doc>
<doc id="20392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20392" title="Snowdon">
Snowdon

Snowdon is the highest mountain in Wales. Its top is known as "Yr Wyddfa" (Old Welsh meaning "the grave"). The English name Snowdon comes from Saxon "Snow Dun", meaning "snow hill".
It is in Snowdonia National Park. As the highest mountain in Wales, Snowdon is one of three mountains climbed as part of the Three Peaks Challenge.

</doc>
<doc id="20398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20398" title="Manaus">
Manaus

Manaus is the principal city of the North Region of Brazil. It is the capital of Amazonas. Manaus had a great age when latex was discovered in the Amazon region. Manaus developed economically and culturally. After that great age, latex started to be produced in other countries, particularly Malaysia and Indonesia, where due the similar climate the plants start to grow even faster than in Brasil.
Manaus is considerated as the entrance door to the biggest ecological reservation in the planet: The Amazon rainforest. Its name come from a tribe called Manaós that lived in this area and means "Mother of God". The colonization started on 1669, with a small fort, and around it grew a settlement. In 1833 it became a village, with the name of Manaus. On October 24th of 1848 it receive the name of city and became the Capital of the state.
Manaus is the site of the "encontro of the waters" where two big rivers Rio Negro (black river) and Solimoes River come together and for more than 10 km "walk together but not mixed" because of their differing density, and then become the Amazon.
The American Charles Goodyear developed a procedure to process the juice of the rubber tree into rubber. The city revelled in money, and the India rubber barons afforded the biggest luxury from Europe, a copy the Grand Opera de Paris - the TEATRO AMAZONAS . Other monuments from this epoch how the MERCADO MUNICIPAL, a copy of the famous market halls Les Halles in Paris, the arts centre RIO PALACIO NEGRO between fascinating Portuguese facades, reflect this time still again.
Today Manaus is a foreign trade zone. Foreign enterprises pay here no import duties what guarantees a certain income for the city and the region. Electronics, wood industry and oil refineries have settled in the outskirts in industrial areas. The harbour is the most important trading centre for the care of the city with regional, national and international products.
About 1.5 million people live in Manaus.
It was nominated as one of the places for the Soccer World Cup 2014. the city is growing rapidly and start to prepare for the event that will bring a lot of people.
The Opera house is the major cultural heritage of the Amazonas. It was inaugurated in 1896 during the rubber boom. In spite of the predominance of neoclassic elements, other styles were used, so the architecture is eclectic, with materials brought from Europe as well as artists like Domenico de Angelis, Giovanni Capranesi and Crispim do Amaral. Preserved as a national heritage since 1965, today, with more than 100 years, it has room for 681 people including balconies and three floors of boxes. After the restauration made by the state government in 1990, the theater rescued its splendor, with performances of famous operas, national and international musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="20400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20400" title="Amazonas">
Amazonas

Amazonas is the name of four places in South American nations:

</doc>
<doc id="20403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20403" title="1740s">
1740s


</doc>
<doc id="20404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20404" title="Tocantins (state)">
Tocantins (state)

Tocantins is a state in central Brazil. The state was made in 1988 out of the northern part of Goiás, and construction began on the capital, Palmas, in 1989. Palmas is much newer than most cities in the area.
The state is the border between the Amazon Rainforest and Brazil's grassy flatlands. The state is very important for raising and selling cows and other farm animals. 

</doc>
<doc id="20406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20406" title="Amazon rainforest">
Amazon rainforest

The Amazon rainforest is the largest forest that grows in the tropical basin of the Amazon River.
The forest lies in a basin drained largely by the Amazon River, with 1100 tributaries. It is a moist broadleaf forest that covers seven million square kilometers (1.7 billion acres), of which five and a half million square kilometers (1.4 billion acres) are covered by the rainforest.
This region includes territory belonging to nine nations. The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, and Colombia with 10%. Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana have just a small amount of rainforest.
The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and it is the largest and most species-rich tract of tropical rainforest in the world. The forest was formed at least 55 million years ago, in the Eocene period.
Wet tropical forests are the most species-rich biome, and tropical forests in the Americas have more species than African and Asian wet forests.
More than one-third of all species in the world live in the Amazon rainforest. It is the richest tropical forest in the world in terms of biodiversity.
The region is home to ~2.5 million insect species, tens of thousands of species of plants, and some 2000 species of birds and mammals and a similar number of fish. The diversity of plant species is the highest on earth with some experts estimating that one square kilometre may contain over 75,000 types of trees and 150,000 species of higher plants. One square kilometre of Amazon rainforest can have about 90,000 tons of living plants. This is the largest collection of living plants and animal species in the world. One in five of all the birds in the world live Here. To date, an estimated 438,000 species of plants of economic and social interest have been registered in the region with many more remaining to be discovered or cataloged. Brazil has tight laws against telling about these species, but enforcing these laws is a problem.
More than one fifth of the Amazon rainforest has already been destroyed. The forest which remains is threatened. People who care for the environment warn about the loss of biodiversity. They also point out that releasing the carbon which is stored in the trees will increase global warming.
Environmentalists are concerned about loss of biodiversity due to the destruction of the forest, and about the release of the carbon in the vegetation, which would accelerate global warming. Amazonian evergreen forests account for about 10% of the world's productivity on land and 10% of the carbon stores in ecosystems—of the order of 1.1 × 10 metric tonnes of carbon. Amazonian forests are estimated to have accumulated 0.62 ± 0.37 tons of carbon per hectare per year between 1975 and 1996.
Some people have calculated that it may even pay to save the forest. They said that one hectare of Amazonian forest in Peru is worth about US $6280, if it is used to harvest fruits, latex and timber (wood). If all the wood is cut down for timber, it has a value of about US $1000. Obviously, this can only be done once; it is not sustainable. When the forest has been cleared, the hectar of land can be used as a pasture, and is worth about US $148.
Not all people agree on the study; some have questioned the assumptions behind it.
The Brazilian Air Force has been using surveillance aircraft to monitor the forest. At a conference in 2004, scientists warned that the rainforest will no longer be able to absorb the millions of tons of greenhouse gases annually, as it usually does, because of the increased speed of rainforest destruction.
9,169 square miles of rain forest were cut down in 2003 alone. In Brazil alone, European colonists have destroyed more than 90 indigenous tribes since the 1900s. With them have gone centuries of knowledge of the medicinal value of rainforest species. As their homelands continue to be destroyed by deforestation, rainforest peoples are also disappearing.
Once the process of vulcanization was invented, companies began to make many kinds of new rubber products, such as boots and seals for machines. American and European companies began buying large amounts of latex from Brazil. This boom in Brazilian rubber began around 1870, but the need for automobile tires brought the greatest wealth to the new rubber producers.
Other rain forest had rubber trees, but Amazonia had by far the best. However, the trees could not be farmed on plantations because if they were next to each other, the insects would eat them. Therefore, people had to find the trees in the rain forest, cut slits in them, leave cups to collect the latex, and come back later to get it.
Thousands of people moved to the rain forest to work collecting rubber. Most of these people were hired by rich rubber merchants. The rubber merchants loaned them money to come down the river and buy tools. Each merchant’s collectors had to sell the rubber only to their rubber merchant at low prices and buy supplies only from them at high prices. That meant the collectors were always in debt to their merchant and could not leave to do something else. The rubber merchants quickly became very rich.
The center of the rubber trade was Manaus on the Rio Negro. It became first a boom town and then a beautiful, wealthy city. It had electricity before most of the cities in the United States did. The newly rich merchants built huge expensive homes and brought in automobiles to travel on the city’s few roads. They built a magnificent opera house with crystal chandeliers and decorated tiles brought all the way from Europe.
However, the rubber boom only lasted about forty years, ending by 1913. Some men had taken the seeds of the Amazon rubber trees and began growing them in the Asian rain forests. The trees grew well there, and they could be grown on plantations. The insects that could destroy them were in South America. So the price of rubber began to fall, and the rubber boom stopped.

</doc>
<doc id="20407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20407" title="Gosport">
Gosport

Gosport is a town in Hampshire, England. The population of Gosport is around 78,000 

</doc>
<doc id="20408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20408" title="Indonesian language">
Indonesian language

Indonesian language (Indonesian/Malay: "Bahasa Indonesia") is the official and national language of Indonesia. Indonesian is a standardized form of the Malay language, and it's spoken in Indonesia. And has considerable differences between the standard Malay spoken in Malaysia and the Malays living in Thailand and Singapore. 
It is spoken as a second language or first by most natives living in the country, because they use a regional one (such as Javanese). However, Indonesia's education, media and communication all use Bahasa Indonesia.
The language's official name is "Bahasa Indonesia" (language of Indonesia), which is also used in English. It also referred to as "Indonesian".

</doc>
<doc id="20410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20410" title="All in the Family">
All in the Family

All in the Family was a popular television show in the 1970s. It was about a family who lived in Queens, New York City. It dealt with many controversial issues during its run (like abortion and racism). It was based on the British sitcom Till Death Us Do Part.

</doc>
<doc id="20411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20411" title="Saint (disambiguation)">
Saint (disambiguation)

Saint can mean different things:
Different religions & groups use the term "saint" differently. The word comes form Latin "Sanctus", which means holy. In general, saints are believed to be good examples of how people should live, or what people should do. Saints are synonymous, or are associated, with holiness. In the Roman Catholic Church, to become a saint, you have to go through a process called canonization, which is performed by the Pope.

</doc>
<doc id="20412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20412" title="Saint Lucia">
Saint Lucia

Saint Lucia is a tropical island country in the eastern Caribbean Sea. It is a part of the Lesser Antilles, and it is north of the islands of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and south of Martinique. As of 2010 there are about 174,000 people.
The official language is English. Saint Lucian Creole French (Kwéyòl), which is a French-based Creole is spoken by 95% of the people. About 70% of the people are Roman Catholic. 
Two Nobel laureates, Arthur Lewis, an economist, and Derek Walcott, a poet and playwright, have come from the island.
Saint Lucia is a full and participating member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) and La Francophonie.
Saint Lucia has 11 quarters, or parishes of the island.
The cities in Saint Lucia are:
The volcanic island of Saint Lucia is more mountainous than many other Caribbean islands. The highest point is Mount Gimie, at above sea level. Two other mountains, the Pitons, form the island's most famous landmark. They are between Soufrière and Choiseul on the western side of the island. Saint Lucia is also one of the few islands in the world that has a drive-in volcano. It is also famous for clear seas and sandy beaches.
The capital city of Saint Lucia is Castries. Over one third of all the people live in the capital. Major towns include Gros Islet, Soufrière and Vieux Fort. 
The local climate is tropical. They have northeast trade winds. There is a dry season from December 1 to May 31, and a wet season from June 1 to November 30.
The Windward Islands cricket team includes players from Saint Lucia. They play in the West Indies regional tournament. Darren Sammy is the first Saint Lucian to represent the West Indies. He is the current captain.
Tourism is important to Saint Lucia's economy. There are more tourists during the dry season (January to April). Saint Lucia tends to be popular due to its tropical weather and scenery and its many beaches and resorts.
Other tourist attractions include a drive-in volcano, Sulphur Springs, the Botanical Gardens, the Majestic twin Peaks "The Pitons", a world heritage site, the rain forests, and Pigeon Island National Park.
Most tourists visit Saint Lucia as part of a cruise. Most of their time tends to be spent in Castries, although Soufriere, Marigot Bay and Gros Islet are popular locations to visit.

</doc>
<doc id="20413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20413" title="Yuri Gagarin">
Yuri Gagarin

Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin (; March 9, 1934 – March 27, 1968) was a Russian cosmonaut (astronaut). He became the first human in space on April 12, 1961, in a rocket launched by the Soviet Union.
Yuri Gagarin was born in the village of Klushino near Gzhatsk (now in Smolensk Oblast, Russia), on 9 March 1934. The town next to Gzhatsk was renamed Gagarin in 1968 in his honour. His parents, Alexey Ivanovich Gagarin and Anna Timofeyevna Gagarina, worked on a collective farm. While manual workers are thought as "peasants," this may be too-simple if applied to his parents — his mother was said to love reading, and his father was a skilled carpenter. Yuri was the third of four children, and his elder sister helped raise him while his parents worked. Like millions of people in the Soviet Union, the Gagarin family suffered during the Nazi invasion in World War II. His two elder siblings were sent out to Nazi Germany for slave work in 1943, and did not return until after the war. While a youth, Yuri became interested in space and planets, and began to dream about his space tour which would one day become a reality. Yuri was thought by his teachers, as smart and hard-working, sometimes . His mathematics and science teacher had flown in the Soviet Air Forces during the war, which was said to make some impression on young Gagarin.
After starting an apprenticeship in a metalworks as a foundryman, Gagarin was selected for further training at a technical high school in Saratov. While there, he joined the flight club, and learned to fly a light aircraft. In 1955, after finishing his technical schooling, he entered military flight training at the Orenburg Pilot's School. While there he met Valentina Goryacheva. Yuri married her in 1957, after gaining his pilot's wings in a MiG-15. Post-graduation, he was told to go to Luostari airbase in Murmansk Oblast, close to the Norwegian border, where bad weather made flying risky. As a full-grown man, Gagarin was tall, which was an advantage in the small Vostok cockpit. He became a lieutenant of the Soviet Air Force on November 5, 1957 and on November 6, 1959 he got the rank of senior lieutenant.
Gagarin kept physically fit throughout his life, and was a good sportsman. As the space explorer Valery Bykovsky wrote:
As well as being a good ice hockey player, Gagarin was also a basketball fan, and coached the Saratov Industrial Technical School team, as well as being an umpire/referee.
In 1960, after the search and selection process, Yuri Gagarin was selected with 19 other space explorers for the "Soviet space program". Along with the other soon to be space explorers, he was tested by experiments made to test his physical and psychological score; he also underwent training for the upcoming flight. Out of the twenty originally selected, the final choice for the first launch was between Gagarin and Gherman Titov because of their performance in training, as well as their physical fitness.
On 12 April 1961, Gagarin became the first man to travel into space, launching to orbit aboard the "Vostok 3KA-3" (Vostok 1). His call sign in this flight was Kedr (Cedar; ). During his flight, Gagarin famously whistled the song "The Motherland Hears, The Motherland Knows" (). The first two lines of the song are: "The Motherland hears, the Motherland knows/Where her son flies in the sky". This song was written by Dmitri Shostakovich in 1951 (opus 86), with words by Yevgeniy Dolmatovsky.
Around the same time, some Western people claimed that Gagarin, during his space flight, had made the comment, ""I don't see any God up here"." However, no such words appear in the direct record of Gagarin's talk with the Earth during the spaceflight. In a 2006 interview a close friend of Gagarin, Colonel Valentin Petrov, said that Gagarin never said such words, and that the phrase came from Nikita Khrushchev's speech at the fullness of the Central Committee of the CPSU, where the anti-religious propaganda was talked about. In a certain context Khrushchev said, ""Gagarin flew into space, but didn't see any God there"."
After the flight, Gagarin became a world famous celebrity. He toured in many places like in Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, and Japan. He did this to promote the Soviet Union achievements.
In 1962, he began serving as a deputy to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. He later came back to Star City. While there, he worked on designs for a spacecraft. Gagarin worked on these designs in Star City for seven years. He became Lieutenant Colonel (or Podpolkovnik) of the Soviet Air Force on 12 June 1962. Then on 6 November 1963 he got the rank of Colonel (Polkovnik) of the Soviet Air Force. Soviet people tried to keep him away from any flights, being worried of losing their hero in an accident. Gagarin was backup pilot for Vladimir Komarov in the Soyuz 1 flight. As Komarov's flight ended in a deadly crash, Gagarin was banned from training for and helping out in further spaceflight/s.
Gagarin then became deputy training director of the Star City cosmonaut training base. At the same time, he began to re-join as a fighter pilot. On 27 March 1968, while on a training flight from Chkalovsky Air Base, he and flight instructor Vladimir Seryogin died in a MiG-15UTI crash near the town of Kirzhach. Gagarin and Seryogin were buried in the walls of the Kremlin on Red Square.
People are not sure what caused the crash, but a 1986 inquest thinks that the turbulence from a Su-11 'Fishpot-C' using its afterburners may have caused Gagarin's plane to go out of control.
Russian documents opened to the public in March 2003 showed that the KGB had changed their own investigation of the accident. In addition to this, one government and two military investigations. The KGB's report removed many conspiracy thoughts, instead of showing the actions of air base personnel added to the crash. The report says that an air traffic controller made Gagarin have old weather information. But by that time of his flight, conditions had become very bad. Ground crew also left fuel tanks on the aircraft. Gagarin's planned flight needed good weather and no outboard tanks. The investigation ended, saying that Gagarin's aircraft entered a spin, either because of a bird strike or because of a sudden move to avoid another aircraft. Because of the old weather report, the crew thought their altitude to be higher than it actually was, and could not properly react to bring the MiG-15 out of its spin.
In his 2004 book "Two Sides of the Moon", Alexey Leonov tells that he was flying a helicopter in the same area that day when he heard "two loud booms in the distance." His thought was that the Sukhoi jet was flying below its minimum allowed altitude, and "without realizing it because of the terrible weather conditions, he passed within 10 or 20 meters of Yuri and Seregin's plane while breaking the sound barrier." The resulting turbulence would have sent the MiG into an uncontrolled spin. Leonov thinks the first boom he heard was that of the jet breaking the sound barrier, and the second was Gagarin's plane crashing.

</doc>
<doc id="20414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20414" title="Yangtze River">
Yangtze River

The Yangtze River, or Yangzi (Simple Chinese: 扬子江 / Traditional Chinese: 揚子江), or Chang Jiang (Simple Chinese: 长江 / Traditional Chinese: 長江), is the longest River in China and Asia, as well as the world's third longest river (after the Amazon and the Nile). It is honored as one of the two main cradles of Chinese civilization. (another is Yellow River)
The river is about 6,300 kilometers (almost 4,000 miles) long and goes from the western part of China (Qinghai Province) into the East China Sea, which is part of the Pacific Ocean. It has been thought of as a dividing point between northern and southern China. It helped start the Chinese civilization.
On the river is a big dam called the Three Gorges Dam, which is one of the biggest in the world. It forms a man-made lake that stretches almost upstream. 
Top tourist attractions for the Yangtze river cruise are Chongqing Dazu Carvings, Three Gorges, lesser Three Gorges, Bai Di City, Fengdu Ghost City and so on. 
The Yangtze River is also known as the Yangzi or Chang Jiange. 

</doc>
<doc id="20415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20415" title="Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia">
Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia

"Sons and Daughters of Saint Lucia" is the national anthem of Saint Lucia. The song has been used since the country became independent in 1979. 
<poem>
Sons and daughters of Saint Lucia, 
love the land that gave us birth,
land of beaches, hills and valleys, 
fairest isle of all the earth. 
Wheresoever you may roam, 
love, oh, love your island home. 
Gone the times when nations battled 
for this 'Helen of the West, 
gone the days when strife and discord. 
Dimmed her children's toil and rest. 
Dawns at last a brighter day, 
stretches out a glad new way. 
May the good Lord bless our island, 
guard her sons from woe and harm! 
May our people live united, 
strong in soul and strong in arm! 
Justice, Truth and Charity, 
our ideal for ever be!
</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="20416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20416" title="Category:Saint Lucia">
Category:Saint Lucia

Saint Lucia

</doc>
<doc id="20418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20418" title="1590s">
1590s

1590

</doc>
<doc id="20419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20419" title="794">
794


</doc>
<doc id="20420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20420" title="537">
537


</doc>
<doc id="20421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20421" title="Category:Greenland">
Category:Greenland


</doc>
<doc id="20424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20424" title="Category:United Nations">
Category:United Nations


</doc>
<doc id="20425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20425" title="Tampico">
Tampico

Tampico is the main city in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico.
It was the site of an incident called the Tampico Affair during the Mexican Revolution in the early 20th century that led to armed conflict between Mexico and the United States. About 80 years earlier Tampico was part of a less serious conflict between the two countries, called the Tampico Expedition.

</doc>
<doc id="20427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20427" title="Goalkeeper">
Goalkeeper

A goalkeeper is someone who protects a team's goal. There are goalkeepers in sports like football (soccer) and ice hockey, for example. The goalkeeper's mission is to prevent the opposing team from scoring a goal. Goalkeepers normally wear more protective gear than other players on the team but this is not always true.
A goalkeeper's kit (or "uniform") consists of shin guards and gloves to protect his hands from the impact of the ball when he catches it.
Historically, however, until the 1960s goalkeepers would wear no hand protection. 
Until the early 20th century, the goalkeeper would often wear the same coloured strip as his teammates, with the only different item of clothing being his cap. However, in 1909, the Scottish Football Association took steps to ensure the goalkeeper would wear a different colour from the outfield players. This was to show his different role, as the only player allowed to handle the ball.
The goalkeeper in ice hockey (a "Goalie") uses thicker padding than the other players on the team. This is to prevent damage caused by being hit by the puck. The hockey stick of the goalie is much wider than the stick of other players. The bottom edge is also longer and flatter. The goalie has a very large leather glove on one hand. This glove has a large area to help catch the puck. Goalies normally wear masks that give protection to the entire face and head as well as the neck.
In field hockey, the goalkeeper stands in the goal net, and stops the other team scoring. Goalkeepers need a lot of kit to protect them from the hockey balls that are hit at them. here is a list:
Goalkeepers are the only position in hockey allowed to kick the ball. If another player kicked the ball it would be a foul.

</doc>
<doc id="20434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20434" title="1580s">
1580s


</doc>
<doc id="20435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20435" title="1583">
1583

1583 (MDLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Tuesday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="20436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20436" title="1810">
1810


</doc>
<doc id="20437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20437" title="1730s">
1730s


</doc>
<doc id="20438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20438" title="1730">
1730


</doc>
<doc id="20439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20439" title="1754">
1754


</doc>
<doc id="20440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20440" title="1600s">
1600s


</doc>
<doc id="20441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20441" title="1609">
1609


</doc>
<doc id="20442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20442" title="1601">
1601


</doc>
<doc id="20443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20443" title="705">
705


</doc>
<doc id="20444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20444" title="314">
314


</doc>
<doc id="20445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20445" title="1500">
1500


</doc>
<doc id="20446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20446" title="1780">
1780


</doc>
<doc id="20447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20447" title="1245">
1245


</doc>
<doc id="20448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20448" title="Mel Brooks">
Mel Brooks

Mel Brooks (born June 28, 1926) is a Jewish American actor, comedian, writer, movie director, and producer. When he was born in Brooklyn, his name was Melvin Kaminsky.
He has directed, produced and written several movies. Most of these are comedies that make references to other movies. 
Brooks is one of the few artists who have received an Oscar, Emmy, Tony, and Grammy. He was awarded his first Grammy for Best Spoken Comedy Album in 1999 for his recording of "The 2000 Year Old Man in the Year 2000" with Carl Reiner. His two other Grammys came in 2002 for Best Musical Show Album for the soundtrack of "The Producers" and for Best Long Form Music Video for the DVD "Recording the Producers - A Musical Romp with Mel Brooks". He won his first of four Emmy awards in 1967 for Outstanding Writing Achievement in Variety for a Sid Caesar special. He went on to win three Emmys in 1997, 1998, and 1999 for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series for his role of Uncle Phil on "Mad About You". He won his three Tony awards in 2001 for his work on the musical, "The Producers" for Best Musical, Best Original Musical Score, and Best Book of a Musical. He also won a Hugo Award and a Nebula Award for "Young Frankenstein". Three of Brooks's movies are on the American movie Institute's list of funniest American films: "Blazing Saddles" (#6), "The Producers" (#11), and "Young Frankenstein" (#13).
Brooks worked with some people many times. Performers who worked on three or more of Brooks' movies are: Gene Wilder, Dom DeLuise, Madeline Kahn, Harvey Korman, Cloris Leachman, Ron Carey, Dick Van Patten and Andréas Voutsinas. 
On December 5, 2009 Brooks was one of five recipients of the 2009 Kennedy Center Honors at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C.
On April 23, 2010 Brooks was awarded the 2,406th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Brooks was married to Florence Baum from 1953 to 1962. Their marriage ended in divorce. Mel and Florence had three children, Stephanie, Nicky, and Eddie.
Brooks was married to the actress Anne Bancroft from 1964 until her death from uterine cancer on June 6, 2005. They met at a rehearsal for the Perry Como Variety Show in 1961 and married three years later. Their son, Max Brooks, was born in 1972. In 2010, Brooks said Bancroft was the main force behind his involvement in making "The Producers" and "Young Frankenstein" for the musical theater.

</doc>
<doc id="20452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20452" title="Hawaii Volcanoes National Park">
Hawaii Volcanoes National Park

Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is a national park in the U.S. state and island of Hawaii. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The park was created in 1916. In it are Mauna Loa, the Earth's biggest volcano, and Kilauea, the Earth's most active volcano.
The park shows the results of millions of years of volcanism, and evolution. These processes thrust a bare land from the sea, and clothed it with complex and unique ecosystems, and a distinct Ancient Hawaiian culture. Kīlauea, one of the world's most active volcanoes, and Mauna Loa, the most massive, offer scientists insights on the birth of the Hawaiian Islands, and give visitors views of dramatic volcanic landscapes.
In recognition of its outstanding natural values, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park has been designated as an International Biosphere Reserve in 1980 and a World Heritage Site in 1987.
On March 19, 2008, there was a small explosion in Halemaumau crater, the first explosive event since 1924 and the first eruption in the Kīlauea caldera since September 1982. 
Debris from the explosion was scattered over an area of . A small amount of ash was also reported at a nearby community. The explosion covered part of Crater Rim Drive and damaged Halemaumau overlook. The explosion did not release any lava, which suggests to scientists that it was driven by hydrothermal or gas sources.
This explosion event followed the opening of a major sulfur dioxide gas vent, greatly increasing levels emitted from the Halemaumau crater.

</doc>
<doc id="20454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20454" title="Wikipedia:Sister projects">
Wikipedia:Sister projects

Wikipedia has many sister projects created by the Wikimedia Foundation. This page lists the templates you need to make links to related information in the different projects.
Use these templates when linking between Wikimedia projects. You can also use direct .

</doc>
<doc id="20455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20455" title="Category:States of Brazil">
Category:States of Brazil

These articles are about the States of Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="20459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20459" title="Pertussis">
Pertussis

Pertussis, also known as whooping cough, is a disease that affects about 300,000 people in the US every year, out of 30–50 million cases per year. There is a vaccine that can prevent it, so most cases of it are in places where people cannot afford, or cannot get, the vaccine. However, this vaccine does not work forever. The disease lasts about 6 weeks, and symptoms include vomiting, violent coughing, and other flu-like symptoms. It is called whooping cough for the sound an infected person makes when they cough.
The disease usually infects younger people, as they are more prone to diseases.

</doc>
<doc id="20464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20464" title="Deity">
Deity

A deity is thought to be a powerful spirit that controls events and the nature of things. Deities are also called gods. A female god is often called a goddess. The adjective of deity is "divine". This word comes from the Latin "deus" (female: "dea").
Different religions believe in different deities. Since there are many religions in the world there are many different ideas about how many deities there are, what they are, and what they can do. Followers of many ancient religions and some modern religions believe in many deities, which is called polytheism. The two largest religions on earth, Christianity and Islam, believe in only one God, which is called monotheism. Deism is the belief that a deity exists, but that the deity does not very often change or never changes things in the universe. Pantheism is the belief that the universe is the deity, while atheism is the belief that there are no deities.
In most religions, believers think deities are immortal (cannot die), and have powers far beyond human powers.
Some of the deities of different religions are:

</doc>
<doc id="20468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20468" title="Odin">
Odin

In Norse mythology, Odin was the king of the Æsir. He is a god of war and death, as well as a sky god and the god of wisdom and poetry. Along with being a god, he is the All-Father of all the Nordic Gods. He is also heavily associated with magic. Odin rides on an eight-legged horse called Sleipnir, and his famous spear is called Gungnir. He also has a precious arm ring called Draupnir, and two ravens called Hugin and Munin who tell him all the things happening around the world. Odin only has one eye, because he sacrificed one to drink from the fountain of wisdom.
Half of the souls of heroes slain in battles will be guided by the Valkyries, battle maidens, to Odin's hall, Valhalla. The other half belongs to the goddess Freyja.
His wives are Frigg and Jord, the Earth. His eldest son is Thor, god of thunder.
Odin would be swallowed by Loki's son, the wolf Fenrir at Ragnarok.
In German, Odin is named Wotan. In older English, Odin is named Woden. It is from that name the weekday Wednesday in English comes from "Wodens day".
In old Norse he is named Oden and the weekday Wednesday is today, in Scandinavia, "Onsdag", from "Odens day".
Odin sacrificed his eye for wisdom. He threw his eye into a well of wisdom. He also impaled himself to a tree for many days, driving a spear through himself, and discovered runes. He got his wish, wisdom.
Odin was one of the foremost practitioners, along with Freya, of magic known as seidr. In traditional Germanic society a man engaging in seidr was an extremely emasculating act. But such was Odin's thirst for knowledge he was prepared to sacrifice his honor and was subject to ridicule thereafter.

</doc>
<doc id="20470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20470" title="Qazi Muhammad">
Qazi Muhammad

Qazi Muhammad (1893-1947) was the Nationalist and Religious Kurdish leader and the Head of Republic of Mahabad (Republic of Kurdistan), the second modern Kurdish state in the Middle East (after Republic of Ararat). He acted as the president of the Russian backed Republic of Mahabad, in Kurdistan of Iran (Eastern Kurdistan) in 1946. He was also the founder of the Kurdish Democratic Party of Iran. A year later, the Kurdish national movement (Komeley Jiyanewey Kurd) that he helped organize was crushed by Iran's central government. The Iranian military court sentenced him to death, and he was hanged in Chuwarchira Square in the center of city of Mahabad at March 30 1947. Mustafa Barzani, the father of nationalist Kurdish movement in Iraqi Kurdistan (Southern Kurdistan), was the defence minister in his cabinet. One of his sons Ali Qazi is today an active member in the kurdish movement.

</doc>
<doc id="20474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20474" title="Brine">
Brine

Brine is water that has more than 5% salt in it. It is used for preserving food. For this it is much like vinegar or sugar. Brine is also used to transport heat. Adding salt to water lowers the freezing point of the water. At 15.5 ° Celsius, a saturated solution of brine can hold 26.4 % salt by weight. At 0°, it can hold 23.3% salt.
Brines also have some pharmaceutical properties, which can be used to treat people, especially those with diseases of the skin, allergies and common colds.

</doc>
<doc id="20476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20476" title="1450s">
1450s


</doc>
<doc id="20477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20477" title="1855">
1855


</doc>
<doc id="20480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20480" title="Aladdin">
Aladdin

Aladdin is a fictional person from the story "Aladdin and the Enchanted Lamp", which is part of the "Book of One Thousand and One Nights". 
The young man Aladdin is told by a sorcerer (magician), who is pretending to be his uncle, to get him an oil lamp from a cave. Aladdin gets the lamp, but the sorcerer tries to trick him. So, Aladdin keeps the lamp for himself. Aladdin learns that inside the lamp there is a djinn. The djinn can fulfill every wish of the lamp's owner. With the djinn's help, Aladdin becomes rich and powerful and marries a princess. 
The sorcerer returns and tricks Aladdin's wife into giving him the magic lamp. Aladdin finds out that in a ring he has, there is another djinn. This djinn helps Aladdin defeat the sorcerer, get back the magic lamp, and save his wife.
There have been different versions of the story:

</doc>
<doc id="20482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20482" title="Nirvana">
Nirvana

In Buddhism, Nirvana is the state of perfect peace reached by not wanting more than you have. It means happiness and peace. It is every Buddhist's goal to achieve Nirvana. The Buddha described it as:
“the far shore, the subtle, the very difficult to see, the unaging, the stable, the undisintegrating, the unmanifest, the unproliferated, the peaceful, the deathless, the sublime, the auspicious, the secure, the destruction of craving, the wonderful, the amazing, the unailing, the unailing state, the unafflicted, dispassion, purity, freedom, the unadhesive, the island, the shelter, the asylum, the refuge...” (SN 43:14)

</doc>
<doc id="20483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20483" title="Lahti">
Lahti

Lahti is a city in Päijänne Tavastia, Finland. Literally it means "bay". It is part of the province of Southern Finland. As of April 2014, there were about 103,450 people living in Lahti. Lahti was the eighth biggest city in Finland as of 31 August 2012.
The concert house Sibelius Hall () in Lahti is named after Jean Sibelius. Many stars, including Antti Tuisku, have performed there.
Lahti's transport was big already at 14th century. Lahti was first a village that belonged to Hollola. It was been burned in 1877. Lahti has been a city since 1905. The population then was 2,779.

</doc>
<doc id="20484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20484" title="British Virgin Islands">
British Virgin Islands

The British Virgin Islands are part of the Virgin Islands, which are chain of islands in the Caribbean. The British Virgin Islands are the Eastern half of the island chain, and they are a British Overseas Territory. The British Virgin Islands has sixteen inhabited and more than twenty uninhabited islands. Over 22,000 people live there, which is many fewer than the neighbouring United States Virgin Islands.
The capital city, Road Town, is on Tortola, one of the islands in the group. Most of the people live on Tortola, but the other main inhabited islands are Anegada, Virgin Gorda and Jost Van Dyke.
The islands were originally inhabited by Caribbean Indians called Arawaks. But by the time the first European explorers discovered the British Virgin Islands all of the Arawaks had left. The first Europeans to try and settle in the British Virgin Islands were the Dutch, but the English came soon after and the English and the Dutch settlers used to fight. The Spanish also claimed the islands, but no Spanish people ever tried to settle there. But the Spanish did attack the British and Dutch settlers.
In 1672 the British took control of the islands during a war against the Dutch and they have held on to them ever since.
During the early years after European settlement the British Virgin Islands was a plantation economy which relied heavily upon slave labour. After slavery was abolished in the British Virgin Islands there was a long period of decline and many people left. Those who remained were mostly descended from African slaves, although many of them also left to try and find better lives elsewhere.
In the 1950s the British Virgin Islands got its own government, and the economy of the islands began to get better with the introduction of tourism and financial services.
The British Virgin Islands are mostly indepependent, but some parts of the Government is run by the United Kingdom.
A new constitution was introduced in 2007. It grants more control over everyday life to the Islanders, and lists the protection a person can expect from the government. The head of Government in the British Virgin Islands is called the Premier, and he is in charge of a group of ministers of Government which is called the Cabinet. Laws are passed by a group of elected politicians in the House of Assembly. Most of the international relations are still dealt with by the British Government in London on behalf of the people of the British Virgin Islands.
Most people in the British Virgin Islands work in the tourist trade or in financial services. There are also a small number of farmers and fishermen.

</doc>
<doc id="20487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20487" title="Lamp">
Lamp

A lamp is a device that makes light and heat. Lamps usually work with electricity, using a lightbulb. In the United States, a lamp is usually considered a desk lamp or floor lamp. Other sources of light are called 'lights', such as streetlights, flashlights, and headlights, which in some countries are called streetlamps, torches and headlamps.
Before electric lamps were invented, gas lamps, oil lamps or candles were used.

</doc>
<doc id="20489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20489" title="Pinocchio">
Pinocchio

Pinocchio is a fictional character from the 1883 book "The Adventures of Pinocchio" by Carlo Collodi.
Pinocchio is a puppet, made by wood carver, Gepetto. When he tells lies, his nose gets longer. Pinocchio learns about being a real life boy and wants to be a real human being instead of a puppet made of wood and strings.
The most well-known version of the story is the 1940 animated Disney movie "Pinocchio".

</doc>
<doc id="20491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20491" title="Diplomacy">
Diplomacy

Diplomacy is the use of tact to gain strategic advantage or to find mutually acceptable solutions to a common challenge. It may include the phrasing of statements in a non-confrontational, or polite manner. Diplomacy often involves countries making an agreement with each other, such as a treaty. Diplomacy is the talk between the representatives of states, such as their heads of state. Sometimes, these talks are about trade or business, and sometimes they are about war and peace. Diplomacy happens a lot when two or more countries fight. 
Diplomats are people that are sent from their home country, to meet with and talk to diplomats from foreign countries. An important type of diplomat is called an ambassador. An ambassador lives in a foreign country, so that they are available for meetings with the government of that country.

</doc>
<doc id="20492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20492" title="Acellular">
Acellular

Acellular or non-cellular life is life that exists without a cellular structure. Some scientists say that a virus is a type of life form.

</doc>
<doc id="20495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20495" title="Mexico (state)">
Mexico (state)

The state of México is one of the administrative divisions of the country of Mexico. It is one of 32 administrative divisions. It is in the centre of the country. It borders Hidalgo, Querétaro, Tlaxcala, Puebla, Michoacán, Morelos and Guerrero as well as Mexico City. The capital of the state is Toluca. Its biggest city is Ecatepec de Morelos, which borders Mexico Federal district. Teotihuacan is also in this state. It is about 21.355 km² in surface. Approximately 14 million people live there, as of 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="20501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20501" title="Yawn">
Yawn

A yawn is a reflex. It involves a large, long taking in of air, the stretching of eardrums as the jaw opens wide, and last a (sometimes loud) breathing out. Pandiculation is the act of yawning and stretching simultaneously. It is easy to see when someone is yawning, but no-one knows what its function is.
Yawning is commonly associated with tiredness, stress, overwork, lack of stimulation and boredom. In humans, yawning is often triggered by others yawning (e.g. seeing a person yawning, talking to someone on the phone who is yawning) and is a typical example of positive feedback. This "infectious" yawning has also been observed in chimpanzees and dogs. Cats both yawn and stretch, though not necessarily at the same time.
The yawn reflex has long been observed to be contagious. In 1508, Erasmus wrote, "One man's yawning makes another yawn.," and the French proverbialized the idea to "Un bon bâilleur en fait bâillier deux." ("One good gaper makes two others gape"). Often, if one person yawns, this may cause another person to "empathetically" yawn. Observing another person's yawning face (especially his/her eyes), even reading, or thinking about yawning, or looking at a yawning picture can cause a person to yawn. 
The immediate cause for contagious yawning may be the mirror neurons in the frontal cortex of certain vertebrates, which, upon being exposed to a stimulus, activates the same regions in the brain. Mirror neurons have been proposed as a driving force for imitation which lies at the root of much human learning such as language acquisition. Yawning may be an offshoot of the same imitative impulse.
Charles Darwin argued, in "The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals", that if a behaviour was present in many cultures, then it must be inherited (wholly or partly). All traits which appear in a wide range of animals must have some function which is supported (or was supported) by natural selection. In most cases the function is obvious, but with yawning we do not know what that function is. Suggestions have been made, but they do not seem to account for its widespread occurrence in mammals, and possibly in other vertebrates.
Because mammals have similar emotions, and can show their emotions very clearly, it is agreed that when they look as if they are yawning, it is yawning in every sense. The reasons for this are similar to the reasons why we think other humans feel the same as us when the show the same signs. 

</doc>
<doc id="20507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20507" title="Constantine">
Constantine

Constantine can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20510" title="Constantine Maroulis">
Constantine Maroulis

Constantine Maroulis (born September 17 1975) is an American singer, actor and writer from New York. He was on the popular television program "American Idol". With his past work experiences, he stands out from other "American Idol" singers. Before he was on television, he sang in the rock band Pray for the soul of Betty. Right now, he is taking a break from his band to sing on his own. He is the first "Idol" alum to sign a contract for the making of a new television sitcom.

</doc>
<doc id="20511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20511" title="Sean Lennon">
Sean Lennon

Sean Taro Ono Lennon (born October 9 1975) is an American singer, musician, actor and writer. He is the son of John Lennon and his second wife Yoko Ono. His mother is Japanese and his father was Welsh, Irish, and English. This makes him Eurasian. He has the same birthday as his father.
Lennon is currently dating model/musician Charlotte Muel. Lennon had been engaged to musican Bijou Phillips.
Lennon has worked with Mark Ronson and childhood friend Jordan Galland.
He has been a member of the groups Cibo Matto, Ghost of a Saber Toothed Tiger and Dopo Yume.

</doc>
<doc id="20512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20512" title="Eurasian people">
Eurasian people

A Eurasian person is a person of mixed European and Asian descent or mixed parentage (someone with one Caucasian parent and one Asian parent). In Hawaii, the term "hapa" is used.

</doc>
<doc id="20513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20513" title="Wallonia">
Wallonia

Wallonia (French: "Wallonie", ) or the Walloon Region (French: "Région wallonne") is a French-speaking region in the south of Belgium. Its official languages are French (98%) and German (2%). Many people understand the local language Walloon, some still speak it, and few people write it. German is spoken mainly in the area of the German-speaking Community of Belgium
The capital of the region is Namur. Other important cities are: Liège, Charleroi, Mons, Tournai and Verviers.
French speaking Walloons share the French community with French speaking people of Brussels.
Wallonia is one of three regions in Belgium. The other two regions are Flanders (or Flemish Region) and Brussels-Capital Region. 

</doc>
<doc id="20514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20514" title="1610s">
1610s


</doc>
<doc id="20515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20515" title="1498">
1498

 
Why was John Cabot famous?
John Cabot was famous as the famous explorer of the coastline of Canada and its subsequent colonization. Cabot was the second European to find North America (after Christopher Columbus). His son, Sebastian Cabot, accompanied his father on many voyages.
Date of Birth: Born in 1450 as Giovanni Caboto
Place of Birth : Genoa in Italy
Parents: Father - Guilo Caboto, a spice merchant 
Sons: Ludovico, Sebastiano, and Sancto
Background Facts, Information & Ancestry : â€˜Cabotoâ€™ means â€œa coastal seamanâ€ which was a common name given to Italian sailors and navigators 
Education: John Cabot was taught cartography, navigation, astronomy, mathematics and seamanship 
June 9: John Cabot reaches the New World - at either Cape Breton Island or Labrador
26 June: Begins his return voyage
August 6: John Cabot and his crew of the Matthew land in Bristol and achieved great fame and glory. He was given a gift of Â£10 for having "found the new isle" and King Henry VII also granted him a pension of Â£20 a year 
July 25: The fleet headed north then sailed along the east coast of America past Newfoundland. One of the ships had to go to an Irish port because of damage. The remaining four ships of the John Cabot fleet continue their journey across the Atlantic
Cabot reaches the east coast of Greenland which he named Labrador's Land
June 11: The journey was made difficult by icebergs and the cold. The crews mutinied and refused to proceed farther North so John Cabot had no alternative but to turn South along the coast of Greenland. He crossed the Davis Strait on to Baffin Land on to Newfoundland and followed the coast Nova Scotia and New England
At this point the John Cabot ships sailed for England 
There is no accurate record of the date or reason for the death of John Cabot but his pension continued to be paid unti1 1499. It seems reasonable to assume that John Cabot reached England with his returning fleet 

</doc>
<doc id="20516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20516" title="1772">
1772


</doc>
<doc id="20518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20518" title="Cryptorchidism">
Cryptorchidism

Cryptorchidism is a condition where one or both testicles does not drop down ("descend") into the scrotum.

</doc>
<doc id="20519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20519" title="Buddy Holly">
Buddy Holly

Charles Hardin Holley or Buddy Holly (September 7, 1936 – February 3, 1959) was an American rock and roll singer, songwriter, and musician. He was from Lubbock, Texas. Buddy Holly is thought to be an important person in the history of Rock and Roll music and rockabilly music. Holly played several different types of instruments. 
Buddy Holly died on February 3, 1959 when an airplane he was on crashed into a field near Mason City, Iowa. Also killed in the crash were Ritchie Valens and J.P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson.
Singer Don McLean's popular 1971 song "American Pie" made February 3 known as "The Day the Music Died."

</doc>
<doc id="20522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20522" title="John Denver">
John Denver

John Denver (born Henry John Deutschendorf, Jr.) (December 31, 1943 – October 12, 1997), was an American musician and songwriter. He was of German and Irish ancestry. He was very popular in the 1970s. He died when the plane he was flying crashed in California.

</doc>
<doc id="20523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20523" title="MediaWiki:Bureaucratlogentry">
MediaWiki:Bureaucratlogentry

set rights for "$1"

</doc>
<doc id="20524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20524" title="Castaic, California">
Castaic, California

Castaic is an unincorporated community and census-designated place in the U.S. state of California. It is in Los Angeles County.

</doc>
<doc id="20525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20525" title="North West England">
North West England

North West England is one of the regions of England in the United Kingdom. The cities of Liverpool and Manchester are in the south of this region. The northern area (which includes Cumbria and part of Lancashire) is full of villages.
The official region consists of the following subdivisions:

</doc>
<doc id="20526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20526" title="Central Point, Oregon">
Central Point, Oregon

Central Point is a city in Oregon, USA. It has a population of 16,550 people as of 2006. It has an area of 3.1 square miles. 

</doc>
<doc id="20528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20528" title="Puebla, Puebla">
Puebla, Puebla

Puebla, Mexico is a Mexican city. It is southeast of Mexico City in a broad valley. The city has had many names over the years including City of Angels, City of Tiles, and Heroic City of Zaragoza.
Puebla was the main city of colonial Mexico. The architecture and look of Puebla is the most European of all the colonial cities. This is because it was built completely by a Spanish. Most cities at the time were built within an existing Native American community.
Puebla is highly industrialized. The historic downtown area remains a Spanish colonial treasure. It is filled with 17th and 18th century European architecture. The city has a nice climate all year around, friendly and courteous people living there and good food.

</doc>
<doc id="20530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20530" title="Puebla">
Puebla

Puebla is part of the name of several places:

</doc>
<doc id="20535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20535" title="Namur (city)">
Namur (city)

Namur (, ) is a city in Belgium. It is both the capital of the province with the same name, as well as of Wallonia, one of the three administrative regions of Belgium. It is in the French-speaking part of Belgium. 
In 2012, there were 112'246 people in Namur.
Namur is at 50° 27 North, 04° 51 East.

</doc>
<doc id="20540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20540" title="Mariska Hargitay">
Mariska Hargitay

Mariska Hargitay (born January 23, 1964 in Los Angeles, California, USA) is an American actress. She is best known for her role on the television series "". She is also the daughter of actor Jayne Mansfield.
Hargitay plays Detective Olivia Benson on the television series "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit. "Olivia is a sex-crimes detective who works with people and children who have been abused, assaulted, raped, molested, and otherwise victimized. Hargitay was inspired by the sad stories she learned on SVU, and she created the real-life Joyful Heart Foundation in 2004. The Joyful Heart Foundation helps real-life survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. 

</doc>
<doc id="20542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20542" title="Santa Cruz de Tenerife">
Santa Cruz de Tenerife

Santa Cruz de Tenerife is the capital of the Canary Islands. It is situated in Tenerife, the biggest and most important (political and economic) island of the Canary Islands.
The city is home to the Parliament of the Canary Islands. With a population of 222,417 in 2009. During the Carnival of Santa Cruz de Tenerife, thousands of people take to the streets each year for over a week. On January 18, 1980 it was declared a Fiesta of International Tourist Interest by the Secretary of State for Tourism, and is one of the world's largest carnivals.

</doc>
<doc id="20544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20544" title="Category:Canary Islands">
Category:Canary Islands


</doc>
<doc id="20545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20545" title="Saint Helena">
Saint Helena

Saint Helena, named after Saint Helena of Constantinople, is an island of volcanic origin in the South Atlantic Ocean at . It is part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, which also includes Ascension Island and the islands of Tristan da Cunha. Saint Helena measures about and has a population of 4,084 (2008 census).
Napoleon was sent to this island by the British and their allies as a result of Napoleon's return from the Elba island and loss at the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleon died there in 1821.
The island is on a tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
The island was discovered in 1502 by the Portuguese admiral João da Nova, and he named it "Santa Helena" after Helena of Constantinople. The traditional date of this discovery was long thought to be 21 May, but the results of an investigation into the discovery published in 2015 concluded this date is probably wrong, the 3 May seeming to be historically more valid. Another theory holds that the island found by De Nova was actually Tristan da Cunha, to the south, and that Saint Helena was discovered by some of the ships under the command of Estêvão da Gama on 30 July 1503.
The Portuguese found the island uninhabited, with an abundance of trees and fresh water. They imported livestock, fruit trees and vegetables, and built a chapel and one or two houses. Though they formed no permanent settlement, the island was, for ships travelling from Asia to Europe, an important place to stop to get food and water, and frequently sick sailors were left on the island to recover. After 1588, the island was visited also by Dutch and English ships.
The Dutch Republic formally made claim to St Helena in 1633, although there is no evidence that they ever occupied, colonised or fortified it. By 1651, the Dutch had mainly abandoned the island in favour of their colony at the Cape of Good Hope.
In 1657, the English East India Company was given a permit to govern St Helena by Oliver Cromwell, and the following year the Company decided to colonise the island with farmers. The first governor, Captain John Dutton, got there in 1659, and made St Helena one of Britain's oldest colonies outside North America and the Caribbean. A fort was completed and a number of houses were built. After the Restoration of the English monarchy in 1660, the East India Company received a Royal permit to start a colony in the island. The fort was named "James Fort" and the town "Jamestown", in honour of the Duke of York, later King James II of England.
The importation of slaves was made illegal in 1792 and Chinese workers were brought to work in the farms. Many were allowed to stay, and their descendents became integrated into the population.
In 1815, the British government decided to use the island of St. Helena as a place of detention for Napoleon Bonaparte. To prevent any attempt to escape from the nearby islands, they formally annexed the islands of Ascension and Tristan da Cunha. In 1821, Napoleon died on the island of St Helena.
In 1858, the French emperor Napoleon III got the possession, in the name of the French government, of Longwood House and the lands around it, last residence of Napoleon I (who died there in 1821). It is still French property.
On 22 April 1834, the island of St Helena became a colony of the British crown.
A local industry using the fibre from New Zealand flax was successfully reestablished in 1907 and generated considerable income during the First World War. However, the industry declined because of transportation costs and competition from synthetic fibres and the last flax industry closed in 1965.
In 1922, the Ascension then was attached as a dependency followed by the Tristan da Cunha Island 12 January 1938.
In 1981, the British governmente changed the status of Saint Helena and the other Crown colonies to "British Dependent Territories".
In 2009, Saint Helena and its two territories received equal status under a new constitution, and the British Overseas Territory was renamed Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
The island of Saint Helena has a total area of . The centre is covered by forest, of which some has been planted. Much of the island has been identified by BirdLife International as being important for bird conservation, especially the endemic Saint Helena Plover or Wirebird, and for seabirds breeding on the islets near the coast.
The highest point of the island is Diana's Peak () at . In 1996 it became the island's first national park. In 2000 a project began to replant part of the lost Great Wood, called the Millennium Forest, and is now managed by the Saint Helena National Trust, established in 2002.
There are several rocks and islets off the coast, including: Castle Rock, Speery Island, the Needle, Lower Black Rock, Upper Black Rock (South), Bird Island (Southwest), Black Rock, Thompson's Valley Island, Peaked Island, Egg Island, Lady's Chair, Lighter Rock (West), Long Ledge (Northwest), Shore Island, George Island, Rough Rock Island, Flat Rock (East), the Buoys, Sandy Bay Island, the Chimney, White Bird Island and Frightus Rock (Southeast), all of which are within one kilometre of the shore.
The national bird of Saint Helena is the Saint Helena Plover, known locally as the Wirebird. It appears on the coat of arms of Saint Helena and on the flag.
The climate of Saint Helena is tropical, marine and mild, tempered by trade winds that blow almost continuously.
Saint Helena is divided into eight districts. People that works and lives in the Jamestown Harbour and in the Royal Mail Ship "St. Helena" (RMS) are included in the census in their work places (see reference).
The island had an economy of only one crop until 1966, based on the cultivation and processing of New Zealand flax for rope and string. St Helena's economy is now weak, and is almost entirely sustained by aid from the British government.
The tourist industry is heavily based on the presence of Napoleon in the island.
Saint Helena produces what is said to be the most expensive coffee in the world. It also produces and exports "Tungi Spirit", made from the fruit of the prickly or cactus pears, "Opuntia ficus-indica" ("Tungi" is the local St Helenian name for the plant). Ascension Island, Tristan da Cunha and Saint Helena all issue their own postage stamps which provide a significant income.
Saint Helena has its own currency, the Saint Helena pound, which is at parity with the pound sterling. The government of Saint Helena produces coins and banknotes. The Bank of Saint Helena was established on Saint Helena and Ascension Island in 2004. It has branches in Jamestown on Saint Helena, and in Georgetown, Ascension Island.

</doc>
<doc id="20547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20547" title="Helicopter">
Helicopter

A helicopter (also often used: chopper or heli) is a kind of flying machine or aircraft. A helicopter lifts up off of the ground and moves because of its rotors. A rotor is several small wings, called rotor blades, that spin together around a shaft. For that reason, helicopters are sometimes called "rotary-wing aircraft". A helicopter flies differently from an airplane. An airplane must move forward to stay in the air, but because the helicopter's rotor blades are always moving, the helicopter can stop and stay in one place above the ground. This allows them to land in places where an airplane cannot. Helicopters can move by tilting their rotor blades, which causes the aircraft to fly in the direction the blades are tilted.
Since around 400 BC, the Chinese had a flying top that was used as a children's toy. The flying top was made from bamboo and used the same method of spinning wings to fly up in the air. Later flying tops were made of feathers tied to a stick. Leonardo da Vinci first thought of a helicopter flown by a man in 1490, and drew pictures of his ideas. It was hundreds of years later (in the early 20th century) before anyone built one that could really fly. The first practical helicopters were built by Frenchman Louis Breguet in 1935 and by German Henrich Focke in 1936. A Russian immigrant, Igor Sikorsky, built and perfected the first practical helicopter in America in 1939.
Helicopters are especially useful when there are disasters. Food packets, water, medicines and clothes are dropped from the air to people on the ground who cannot be reached by road. When people are injured, helicopters can carry them to hospitals faster than an ambulance on the road. Helicopters are also used by the military, because they can move troops and equipment to places an airplane cannot take them. Attack helicopters act as attack aircraft carrying and shooting guns and missiles.

</doc>
<doc id="20548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20548" title="Baku">
Baku

Baku () is the capital and the largest city of Azerbaijan, as well as the largest city on the Caspian Sea and of the Caucasus region. It is on the southern shore of the Apsheron Peninsula. Baku is located below sea level, which makes it the lowest lying national capital in the world and also the largest city in the world located below sea level. Modern Baku has three parts: the Old Town (İçəri Şəhər), the boomtown and the Soviet-built town. About 3 million people live in the metropolitan area. There are large numbers of refugees and internally displaced persons.
In Baku area there is a lot of oil. There are a lot of state and private universities.
Baku is hosted the 57th Eurovision Song Contest in May 2012. They also bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics. The city's three main football clubs are Neftchi Baku, FC Baku and Inter Baku. Baku is one of world's leading chess centres.
Today, Baku is divided into 11 "raions" (administrative districts) and 5 settlements of city type. 

</doc>
<doc id="20549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20549" title="Windows ME">
Windows ME

Windows ME is the Millennium Edition of the Microsoft Windows operating system. Windows ME is based on Windows 98. Windows ME was based on MS-DOS (as were Windows 98 and Windows 95), and is meant for people using computers in their homes. Windows 2000 and Windows ME are similar in looks, but Windows ME has features that families find useful, while Windows 2000 was meant for businesses, although many home users also used Windows 2000 especially after Windows ME got bad reviews. It was released near the year 2000 because it was the Third Millennium, calling it Windows Millennium Edition. It was the last Windows to be based in MS-DOS. Unlike Windows 2000, Windows ME generally got negative reviews due to bugs and incompatible hardware. Support and updates for Windows ME (and Windows 98) ended in 2006, whereas Windows 2000 was supported until 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="20550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20550" title="Librarian">
Librarian

A librarian is a person who works in a library and helps people to find books, magazines, and other information. In the 2000s, librarians also began helping people to find information using computers, electronic databases, and Internet search tools. There are different kinds of librarians including children's, teens, adult, historical, law, and more.
To become a librarian in a university, a person needs to have a Master's degree in Library Science (MLS) or a Master's degree in Library and Information Science.
Most librarians work for libraries in schools, colleges, or universities or in municipal, regional, or national libraries. Some librarians also work for private companies, to help them to organize their documents and reports. There are librarians that also work with the deaf and in prisons.
Other jobs in libraries include the job of library technician. To become a library technician, a person needs to complete a college diploma.

</doc>
<doc id="20552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20552" title="Category:Azerbaijan">
Category:Azerbaijan


</doc>
<doc id="20554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20554" title="Geronimo">
Geronimo

Geronimo ("Chiricahua" Goyaałé 'One Who Yawns'; often spelled Goyathlay in English), (June 16, 1829–February 17, 1909) was a well-known Native American leader, but not chief, of the Chiricahua Apache tribe, but he was a Bedonkohe Apache. He was born in what is now the state of New Mexico and was also a respected medicine man. The name Geronimo was given to him by Mexican soldiers who either called to Saint Jerome while fighting him or transcribed his name into Spanish wrong. He led 38 Apache men, women, and children to resist being sent to reservations by the United States government or being captured by the Mexican Army. He surrendered in 1886. After that, he was moved to many different forts in the United States. In 1904 during the world fair in St. Louis, he sold souvenirs and pictures of himself. He died in 1909 from pneumonia.

</doc>
<doc id="20555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20555" title="Namur">
Namur

Namur has these meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="20558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20558" title="Gold rush">
Gold rush

A gold rush is when a lot of miners go to a mining place full of gold. Well-known examples are the California Gold Rush of 1849 and the Australian gold rush which began in 1851.

</doc>
<doc id="20559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20559" title="California Gold Rush">
California Gold Rush

The California Gold Rush all started when James Wilson Marshall was building a water powered sawmill for John Sutter in 1848. When he finished building the sawmill, he went to the river to fetch some water, but that is when it happened. He saw some shiny little flakes of gold in the river. He immediately went to tell John, and they tried to keep it a secret. But word soon got out, and the gold rush started.
Some people became rich but most did not. Besides trying to find gold, some people started selling things. This gave them benefits and popularity. Sometimes a woman could earn more than her mining husband. Men like Levi Strauss also sold things. He invented and sold jeans made from denim. The California Gold Rush ended in 1855. At that time many gold miners went back home because gold was harder to find.

</doc>
<doc id="20560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20560" title="Jeans">
Jeans

Jeans are a type of pants made from heavy, strong cotton material (fabric) called denim. They were invented in the United States by Levi Strauss in 1872. In the late 1800s, jeans were worn by workers. Jeans are one of the most obvious symbols of American cultural influence in the world. They are worn in many countries around the world.
In the 1950s, jeans became a popular fashion for teenagers and young adults. In the 1950s, jeans were part of rockabilly fashion for teenagers. Now, jeans are a very popular type of pants. They are usually worn as casual fashion clothing. Jeans are made in many styles and colors.
The word "jeans" came from the French name of the city in Italy where a strong cotton fabric was made. The Italian city's name, Genoa, was spelled "jene" in Middle English and "Gênes" in the French language. 

</doc>
<doc id="20561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20561" title="Sovereignty">
Sovereignty

Sovereignty is the right of a government to have complete control over its area. The idea that this right comes from doing good things for the people under control of the government is as old as Ancient Greece if not older.
The exact meaning of Sovereignty has changed some in the past. The present meaning of Sovereignty is said to come from the Peace of Westphalia, an agreement between the rulers of Europe in 1648 which said:
Ancient Rome was first the Roman Republic, but then when Octavian made the Roman Empire the Emperor of Rome said that he was "Sovereign". The meaning of this was that he could make any law he wanted, and he did not have to do what the law said himself.
In the time of the Middle Ages many kings and rulers had to do what other leaders said, such as the leader of the Catholic Church, the Pope. Because of this, the idea of "Sovereignty" was not used mostly.
In the time of the Protestant Reformation, in the 1500's and 1600's, governments were breaking away from religious leaders. Also many wars were fought between different rulers inside areas that are now sovereign countries. The English Civil War is one example of a war fought in this time between leaders inside one country.
The Peace of Westphalia was made in this time. The idea of "Sovereignty" came back now that governments were separate of outside leaders and only one government or ruler inside a country could make laws.
The English thinker Thomas Hobbes wrote a book in 1651 that said rulers and governments are "Sovereign" because they are good for the safety of the people. The idea that people could change rulers if they were not safe was new with Hobbes.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote a book in 1763 that said the choice of the people is the only thing sovereignty comes from.
In 1789 the French Revolution made an important country's government ruled by the choices of the people for the first time after the Middle Ages (some cities and small countries were democracies in the Middle Ages). There were many problems and France went back to the old way soon after, but would be ready for Democracy in 1870's. In England, many people got to vote after The Reform Act in 1832. The United States broke away from England in 1776-1783, but was not an important country at that time.
"Sovereignty" when talking about relations between countries mostly means the rights a Sovereign state has over its territory.
Sometimes there is discussion about when a government loses Sovereignty because it is doing bad things for its people. In this case justice may mean other countries need to intrude on the sovereignty of the government.
"Sovereignty" when talking about relations between groups inside one country usually means which group has the Legitimacy to rule. This may not be certain. Sometimes the group who is most able to rule (because of a strong military) is not Legitimate.

</doc>
<doc id="20564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20564" title="Category:Island insular areas of the United States">
Category:Island insular areas of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="20569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20569" title="FIFA">
FIFA

The Fédération Internationale de Football Association (French for International Federation of Football Associations ), or FIFA for short, is the organization that controls international football (also called "association football"). The organization’s main buildings are in Zürich, Switzerland. FIFA organizes major international football tournaments, and the most famous one is the FIFA World Cup, which has been held since 1930. FIFA was established on May 21, 1905 in Paris and has 209 national associations as its members. The organization’s official languages are English, French, German and Spanish.
The president of FIFA is currently Gianni Infantino, serving since 26 February 2016.
The most powerful organ of FIFA is the FIFA Congress, which is an assembly made up of representatives from each member association. The Congress holds a regular meeting once a year, and since 1998 an additional meeting has been held every year. Only the Congress can pass changes to FIFA's laws.
The Congress decides whether FIFA should accept new national associations and elects the President of FIFA, its General Secretary and the other members of FIFA's Executive Committee. The President and General Secretary take care of what goes on within and around FIFA. The Executive Committee, with the President as its head, is responsible for deciding the dates, locations and format of tournaments.
Also, there are six regional confederations recognized by FIFA which take care of the game in the seven different continents of the world. National associations must be members of both FIFA and their regional confederation in order for their teams to compete in FIFA's competitions. The six confederations are AFC (Asian Football Confederation in Asia and Australia), CAF (Confédération Africaine de Football in Africa), CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football in North America and Central America), CONMEBOL (Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol in South America), OFC (Oceania Football Confederation in Oceania) and UEFA (Union Européenne de Football Association in Europe). hi

</doc>
<doc id="20576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20576" title="American Idol">
American Idol

American Idol is an American reality-singing competition series created by Simon Fuller and produced by 19 Entertainment, and distributed by FremantleMedia North America. It began airing on Fox on June 11, 2002, as an addition to the Idols format based on the British series Pop Idol and has since become one of the most successful shows in the history of American television.
Eventually the American people are allowed to vote by calling or texting, and the person with the least votes is off the show. 
The TV show consists of multiple rounds of elimination. The singers can be anyone between the age of 15 and 29 years. In 2013, the show finished the twelfth season.
"American Idol" has three judges, who give comments on performances. The three judges are: 
"American Idol" also has a host, Ryan Seacrest.

</doc>
<doc id="20577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20577" title="Smile">
Smile

A smile is a face made by flexing the muscles near both ends of the mouth. The smile can also be made through the eyes (See 'Duchenne smile' below). Smiles usually show happiness. A smile can be natural or fake. However, smiling can be different with animals. When smiling, the teeth shows, but sometimes animals do this when they are threatening. When chimpanzees show their teeth, it can also be a sign of fear.
Dimples are genetically inherited. They are caused by the flesh underneath the skin, that forms on some people's cheeks, especially when they smile. Some people may only have one dimple on only one side of the face.
Although there are many different types of smiles, researchers are interested in the duchenne smile because it is done with the eyes. The Duchenne smile was named after the French physician Guillaume Duchenne. Duchenne identified two types of smiles. A Duchenne smile is when the cheek raises and forms a wrinkle around the eyes. Many researchers think that Duchenne smiles are usually hard to make when you are pretending to smile.
On the Internet, smiles can normally be typed up. This is normally called a smiley, smiley face, or happy face. Smileys show emotion when people are not able to see it in real life. Smileys typed on the computer are called emoticons. Smileys can change depending on where the person typing the smiley is.
Western Style: :-), :-(, ;-), :-O, :-D, (;D)
Eastern Style: d(^.^)b, \(^o^)/, >.<, ^_^, *<):)

</doc>
<doc id="20591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20591" title="Słupsk">
Słupsk

Słupsk is a city in northern Poland in Pomeranian Voivodeship. It has about 100.000 inhabitants and 43,15 km².

</doc>
<doc id="20598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20598" title="Emperor of Ethiopia">
Emperor of Ethiopia

The Emperor of Ethiopia was the name of the ruler of Ethiopia until 1975 when the emperors and the royal family, the Solomonids, were taken out of power.
The name that was used for "Emperor" by the Ethiopians means "King of Kings".

</doc>
<doc id="20599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20599" title="Solomonid dynasty">
Solomonid dynasty

The Solomonid dynasty was a line of emperors that ruled in Ethiopia from 1270 to 1975. There were some other emperors that ruled who were not from the Solomonid dynasty, but the Solomonids were in control most of the time. 
The emperors did not use their real name when they became Emperor of Ethiopia, but they made up a new one for their rule. For example, the first Emperor of the Solomonids was Yekuno Amlak. But he used the name "Tasfa Iyassus" after he became ruler. 
The dynasty began in 1270, when Yekuno Amlak killed the last king of the Zagwe dynasty, which had ruled Ethiopia. Yekuno Amlak was made king, and European historians say was the first ruler of the dynasty. But most Ethiopian books say that Menelik I, the son of King Solomon of Israel and the Queen of Sheba, was the first Emperor of this dynasty.
The leaders of Ethiopa from 1270 to 1975 (mostly Solomonids):

</doc>
<doc id="20601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20601" title="The Sound of Music">
The Sound of Music

The Sound of Music is a musical. It was based on a 1956 German movie, "Die Trapp-Familie" and "The Story of the Trapp Family Singers" by Maria von Trapp. The musical's book was written by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse. The lyrics were written by Oscar Hammerstein II. The music was written by Richard Rodgers. It was the last musical written by Rodgers and Hammerstein. Hammerstein died of cancer nine months after the Broadway opening.
A young Austrian woman named Maria Rainer becomes the governess to the children of Captain Georg von Trapp, a widower. There are seven of them - they are Liesl (16), Fredrich (14), Louisa (13), Kurt (10 - almost 11), Brigitta (9), Marta (7), and Gretl (5). Maria teaches the children how to sing, during the famous song "Do Re Mi". The captain and Maria fall in love and marry. The Nazis want the captain to be a part of their navy. He does not do it, instead planning a daring escape from the Salzburg Festival, where the von Trapp family singers are performing. He eludes them, and leads his family to safety over the Alps to Switzerland. 
"The Sound of Music" had its premiere on 16 November 1959 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre on Broadway. It starred Mary Martin as Maria and Theodore Bikel as Capt. von Trapp. It moved to the Mark Hellinger Theatre on 6 November 1962, and closed on 15 June 1963 after 1,443 performances. 
The musical opened on the West End at the Palace Theatre on 18 May 1961. It starred Jean Bayless as Maria and Roger Dann as Capt. von Trapp. The musical ran for 2,385 performances.
The musical won a Tony Award for Best Musical. 
The musical was released as a 1965 movie starring Julie Andrews as Maria Rainer and Christopher Plummer as Capt. von Trapp.

</doc>
<doc id="20604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20604" title="Academy Award for Best Picture">
Academy Award for Best Picture

The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards. Also called Oscars, the Academy Awards are given to people working in the movie industry by the American Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). The name of the award has changed over time. It was first Outstanding Picture in 1927. In 1930, the name was changed to Best Picture. It is still called that today.
In the list below are the winners of the award for each year. A list of the winners and other nominees is in the main article for each decade.

</doc>
<doc id="20607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20607" title="Bulimia nervosa">
Bulimia nervosa

Bulimia nervosa (bulimia) is a disease and a type of eating disorder. It is when a person wants to starve his or her self. People who have it feel that they are fat and want to be skinny. When they are hungry, they eat a lot of food. Then, they try to take it back by vomiting, exercising, or using drugs (usually Ipecac).
The person with bulimia eats large amounts of food. Then, they want to get rid of it. To do this, they vomit or use drugs. They do this at least once a week or more often. The person always thinks about how his or her body looks, and he or she wants to be skinny. The person may also have anorexia nervosa. However, most people with bulimia have a normal weight or are overweight, which makes it difficult to know when someone has bulimia from looking at them.
Bulimia nervosa can cause many health problems. Because vomit has a lot of acid in it, doing it a lot can burn the person's mouth, throat, or teeth. Someone can lose nutrients or fluids in his or her body. Glands in one's throat and face may get bigger and hurt. The immune system is weakened, and a person can get muscle or heart problems.
Sometimes bulimia can cause difficulty breathing. This is because the acids that are in your mouth go to your lungs and damages the bronchioles.
Most people who get bulimia are ages 10 to 25. Usually girls have bulimia, but boys can have it too. People who have had bad things happen to them are more likely to get the disease too. People with obsessive compulsive disorder or perfectionism are also more likely to have bulimia.

</doc>
<doc id="20609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609" title="Turks and Caicos Islands">
Turks and Caicos Islands

The Turks and Caicos Islands are two groups of islands in the Caribbean Sea, near the Bahamas. The islands lie southeast of Mayaguana in the Bahamas island chain and north of the island of Hispaniola. Cockburn Town, the capital since 1766, is in the Grand Turk Island about east-southeast of Miami, United States.
The islands have a total land area of . and they are on a tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
The government of Great Britain is also the ruler of the Turks and Caicos, but that ruler always acts through a governor. There are local elections for premier (similar to a president). Government offices are in the Grand Turk Island.
The two island groups are in the North Atlantic Ocean, southeast of the Bahamas, north of Hispaniola, at . The Caicos Islands are separated by the Caicos Passage from the closest Bahamian islands, Mayaguana and Great Inagua.
The eight main islands and more than 299 smaller islands have a total land area of , consisting primarily of low, flat limestone with extensive marshes and mangrove swamps and of beach front. The weather is usually sunny and relatively dry, but hurricanes are frequent during summer. The islands have limited natural fresh water resources; private cisterns collect rainwater for drinking. The primary natural resources are spiny lobster, conch and other shellfish.
The Turks Islands are separated from the Caicos Islands by Turks Island Passage, which is more than deep, The islands form a chain that goes from north to south.
There are only two inhabited islands, and these are:
The inhabited islands of the group are:
Turks and Caicos Islands features a relatively dry and sunny marine tropical climate with relatively consistent temperatures throughout the course of the year. The temperature during summer rarely is over and during winter rarely is below .
Eight of the thirty islands in the territory are inhabited, with a total population in 2012 of 31,458: 16,037 males and 15,421 females. The population density is 214 persons per square mile.
Total population by island 2001-2012
The official language of the islands is English and the population also speaks Turks and Caicos Islands Creole which is similar to Bahamian Creole. Due to its close proximity to Cuba and Hispaniola, large Haitian Creole and Spanish-speaking communities have developed in the territory due to immigration from Creole-speaking Haiti and from Spanish-speaking Cuba and Dominican Republic.
The people of Turks and Caicos was 72.8% Protestant (35.8% Baptists, 11.7% Church of God, 10% Anglicans, 9.3% Methodists, 6% Seventh-Day Adventists), 11.4% Catholics, 1.8% Jehovah's Witnesses, and 14% other.
This is a list of cities in the Turks and Caicos Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="20610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610" title="Vichy France">
Vichy France

Vichy France was the government set up by the Germans in southern France in 1940 during World War II. It was led by [Philippe Pétain], notable for helping to win World War I. The Vichy government, which was a satellite state of Germany, controlled the Southern half of France. The German army ran the Northern half. In 1944, the government moved to Nazi Germany, and later disbanded. 

</doc>
<doc id="20611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611" title="Anguilla">
Anguilla

Anguilla is a group of five islands in the Caribbean Sea. The islands are ruled by Great Britain. 
Anguilla was once part of what is now Saint Kitts and Nevis, but broke away in 1980. Anguilla wanted to still be a part of Great Britain, and Saint Kitts and Nevis wanted to be independent.
It is named after the Spanish word for "eel", because it has such a shape.
The queen of the United Kingdom is the ruler of Anguilla, but she works through a governor. She names, or "appoints" the governor, and he is just working there in her place. The legislature is elected by the people, has 11 members, and is called the House of Assembly.
Anguilla gets most of its money from fishing and tourism.
Most people in Anguilla are Protestants, and speak English.

</doc>
<doc id="20612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20612" title="Bermuda">
Bermuda

Bermuda (/bɜrˈmjuːdə/ "Ber-myu-dah"; officially, the Bermudas or Somers Islands) is a British overseas territory in the North Atlantic Ocean. The land has one main island and 180 smaller islands. Bermuda is a popular tourist place, with mild weather during the winter months.
Off the east coast of the United States, Bermuda's nearest landmass is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, about 1,030 kilometres (640 mi) to the west-northwest. It is about 1,373 kilometres (853 mi) south of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, and 1,770 kilometres (1,100 mi) northeast of Miami, Florida. Its capital city is Hamilton.
 in 1505 by Spanish navigator Juan de Bermúdez (who said it to be inhabited only with pigs), after whom the islands are named. Bermúdez claimed it for the Spanish Empire. Unoccupied, the island was settled by England in 1609, making it the oldest and most populous remaining British overseas territory. Its first capital, St George's, was founded in 1612 and is the oldest continuously inhabited English town in the Americas.
The country is in the Atlantic Ocean, near the western edge of the Sargasso Sea. It is about 580 nautical miles (1070 km, 670 mi) east-southeast of Cape Hatteras on the Outer Banks of North Carolina and about 590 nautical miles (1100 km, 690 mi) southeast of Martha's Vineyard. The island is due east of Fripp Island, South Carolina. It has 103 km (64 mi) of coastline.
The territory has 181 islands. The total area is 53.3 square kilometres (20.6 sq mi). The largest island is "Main Island", sometimes itself called "Bermuda".
Bermuda has a subtropical climate. The weather is humid and, as a result, the summertime heat index can be high, even though mid-August temperatures rarely exceed Winters are mild, with average daytime temperatures in January and February around The temperature rarely drops below 10 °C 
Bermuda is very likely to be affected by hurricanes. The island's small size means that direct landfalls are rare. The last hurricane to cause significant damage to Bermuda was category 3 Hurricane Fabian on 5 September 2003.
The only source of fresh water in Bermuda is rainfall. It is collected on roofs and catchments and stored in tanks. Each home usually has at least one of these tanks forming part of its foundation.
When discovered, Bermuda had no people. It was mostly covered by forests of Bermuda cedar, with mangrove marshes along its shores. Only 165 of the island's current 1000 vascular plant species are considered native. Of those 15, including the cedar, are endemic.
Many species of palm trees have been introduced to Bermuda. Coconut palms grow there, making it the furthest north place for the natural growth of this species. While coconuts grow on Bermuda, the lack of heat does not usually let them properly set fruit.
The only indigenous mammals of Bermuda are five species of bats. All of these bats are also in the eastern United States — "Lasionycteris noctivagans", "Lasiurus borealis", "Lasiurus cinereus", "Lasiurus seminolus" and "Perimyotis subflavus". Other commonly known fauna of Bermuda includes its national bird, the Bermuda Petrel, and the Bermuda Rock Skink. The skink was long thought to have been the only indigenous land vertebrate of Bermuda. It has recently been discovered, however, that a species of terrapin predated the arrival of humans on the archipelago.
Bermuda is divided into nine parishes and two municipalities.
Bermuda's nine parishes:
Bermuda's two municipalities:
Bermuda's two informal villages:
Despite their names, Jones Village (in Warwick), Cashew City (St. George's), Claytown (Hamilton), Middle Town (Pembroke) and Tucker's Town (St. George's) are merely neighborhoods. Dandy Town and North Village are sports clubs and Harbour View Village is a small public housing development.
Bermuda has a wealthy economy, with finance as its largest sector, followed by tourism. In 2005, Bermuda was even claimed to have the world's highest GDP per capita, yet these statistics are hard to verify as Bermuda is not classified as a country but rather as a territory of the U.K.
Bermuda's pink sand beaches and clear, cerulean blue ocean waters are popular with tourists. Many of Bermuda's hotels are along the south shore of the island. In addition to its beaches, there are a number of sightseeing attractions. Historic St George's is a World Heritage Site. Scuba divers can explore many wrecks and coral reefs in shallow water (typically in depth) with nearly unlimited visibility. Many nearby reefs are easy to access from shore by snorkellers, especially at Church Bay.
Bermuda's most popular visitor attraction is the Royal Naval Dockyard. It includes the Bermuda Maritime Museum. Other attractions include the Bermuda Aquarium, Museum and Zoo, Bermuda Underwater Exploration Institute, the Botanical Gardens, lighthouses, and the Crystal Caves with its impressive stalactites and underground saltwater pools.
It is not possible to rent a car on the island. However, visitors can hire scooters for use as private transport, or use public transport.
Bermuda has produced, or been home to, actors such as Oona O'Neill, Earl Cameron, Diana Dill, Lena Headey, Will Kempe, and most famously, Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones. Other movie and television personalities who were born, or have lived, in Bermuda include producer Arthur Rankin, Jr., and cartoonist and Muppet man Michael Frith.
Music and dance are important in Bermuda. Noted musicians have included local icons The Talbot Brothers, who performed for many decades both in Bermuda and the United States, and were on Ed Sullivan's televised variety show. Other musicians are jazz pianist Lance Hayward, singer-songwriter Heather Nova and her brother, Mishka, tenor Gary Burgess, classical musician and conductor Kenneth Amis, and more recently, dancehall artist Collie Buddz.
In 1979, Gina Swainson was crowned "Miss World".
Bermuda's national cricket team was in the Cricket World Cup 2007 in the West Indies. Their most famous player is Dwayne Leverock. Also very well known is David Hemp. The yearly "Cup Match" cricket tournament between rival parishes St George's in the east and Somerset in the west is the time for a popular national holiday.
In 2007 Bermuda hosted the 25th PGA Grand Slam of Golf. The event returned to Bermuda again in 2008 and 2009. Bermudian Quinn Talbot was once the World one-armed golf champion.
The Government said in 2006 that it will provide substantial financial support to Bermuda's cricket and football teams. Bermuda's most famous footballers include Clyde Best, Shaun Goater, Reggie Lambe, Sam Nusum and Ralph Bean. In 2006, the Bermuda Hogges were formed as the nation's first professional football team. The team plays in the United Soccer Leagues Second Division.
Sailing, fishing, and equestrian sports are popular with both residents and visitors alike. The Newport–Bermuda Yacht Race is a more than 100-year-old tradition. A sport unique to Bermuda is racing the Bermuda Fitted Dinghy. International One Design racing also started in Bermuda.
At the 2004 Summer Olympics, Bermuda competed in sailing, athletics, swimming, diving, triathlon and equestrian events. In those Olympics, Bermuda's Katura Horton-Perinchief made history by becoming the first black female diver in the Olympic Games. Bermuda has had one Olympic medallist, Clarence Hill. Hill won a bronze medal in boxing. Bermuda also was in Men's Skeleton at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. Jillian Teceira was in the Beijing Olympics in 2008. Bermuda also competes in the biennial Island Games. It will host in 2013.
Bermuda has a proud Rugby Union community. The Bermuda Rugby Union team won the 2011 Caribbean championships – defeating Guyana in the final.
Bermuda is the easternmost point of the so-called "Bermuda Triangle"– a region of sea in which a number of aircraft and ships have allegedly disappeared under mysterious circumstances. Some people think there is a pattern to the disappearances, while other people think it is only coincidence.

</doc>
<doc id="20613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20613" title="Tarja Halonen">
Tarja Halonen

Tarja Halonen (born December 24, 1943) is the former President of Finland. She is from Helsinki. She was elected in 2000 and 2006. Her mandate ended in 2012 and she left office on 1 March 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="20614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20614" title="Turku">
Turku

Turku () is a city in Southwest Finland. It is the fifth-largest city in Finland, with about 180,000 people living there.
It is next to the municipalities of Aura, Kaarina, Lieto, Masku, Mynämäki, Naantali, Nousiainen, Pöytyä, Raisio and Rusko.
The official languages spoken in Turku are Finnish and Swedish.
The harbour of Turku is an important port. Many ships go from there to Mariehamn and to Stockholm. Turku Airport is also one of Finland's busiest airports.
Turku is located near the mouth of Aura river, and is spreads at both sides of the river. There are ten bridges over the Aura river in Turku. 
Turku is the oldest city in the country. it was founded in 13th century, when Finland was part of the Kingdom of Sweden. It used to be the largest city and capital of Finland. From 1809 Russia ruled Finland, and in 1812 the government moved to Helsinki. A big fire destroyed much of Turku in 1827. After that, even the university moved to Helsinki.
The first school in Finland was established in Turku, the old Cathedral school in 13th century. The first university in Finland, the "The Royal Academy of Turku" was established in the city in 1640, but it has moved to Helsinki and become the University of Helsinki. Now there are five universities in Turku: three in Finnish language and two in Swedish language.

</doc>
<doc id="20616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20616" title="Wings (movie)">
Wings (movie)

Wings is a silent movie released in 1927. It is most famous as the first movie to win the Academy Award for Best Picture.
Jack Powell (Charles "Buddy" Rogers) and David Armstrong (Richard Arlen) are rivals in the same small American town, both vying for the attentions of pretty Sylvia Lewis (Jobyna Ralston). Jack fails to realize that "the girl next door", Mary Preston (Clara Bow), is desperately in love with him. The two young men both enlist to become combat pilots in the Air Service. When they leave for training camp, Jack mistakenly believes Sylvia prefers him; she actually prefers David and lets him know about her feelings, but is too kindhearted to turn down Jack's affection.
Jack and David are billeted together. Their tent mate is Cadet White (Gary Cooper), but their acquaintance is all too brief; White is killed in an air crash the same day. Undaunted, the two men endure a rigorous training period, where they go from being enemies to best friends. Upon graduating, they are shipped off to France to fight the Germans.
Mary joins the war effort by becoming an ambulance driver. She later learns of Jack's reputation as an ace and encounters him while on leave in Paris. She finds him, but he is too drunk to recognize her. She puts him to bed, but when two Military Police barge in while she is innocently changing from a borrowed dress back into her uniform in the same room, she is forced to resign and return to America.
The climax of the story comes with the epic Battle of Saint-Mihiel. David is shot down and presumed dead. However, he survives the crash landing, steals a German biplane, and heads for the Allied lines. By a tragic stroke of bad luck, he is spotted and shot down by Jack, who is bent on avenging his friend. When Jack lands to pick up a souvenir, he becomes distraught when he learns what he has done, but before David dies, he forgives his comrade.
With the end of the war, Jack returns home to a hero's welcome. When he returns David's effects to his grieving parents, David's mother blames the war, not Jack, for her son's death. Then, Jack is reunited with Mary and realizes he loves her.

</doc>
<doc id="20617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20617" title="Sunrise (movie)">
Sunrise (movie)

Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans or Sunrise is a 1927 silent movie. It is the only movie to ever win Academy Award for Unique and Artistic Production. This category was not used again. It won the award for Best Cinematography and actress, Janet Gaynor, won the Best Actress award. It was the first to improvise a primitive version of CGI using nuclear warheads. It was directed by F.W. Murnau.

</doc>
<doc id="20618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20618" title="The Broadway Melody">
The Broadway Melody

The Broadway Melody is one of the first Hollywood musical movies. It was released in 1929 and made more money than any movie that year. It was also the winner of the Academy Award for Best Picture.

</doc>
<doc id="20619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20619" title="Rocky">
Rocky

Rocky is a 1976 American sports drama movie. It was written by, and starred, Sylvester Stallone. The movie is about a man living in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who is trying to become a great boxer. 
It won three Academy Awards and was ranked #78 in AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. It was followed by 5 sequels, the most recent came out in 2006.
The movie was made on a budget of less than $1 million. It was shot in 28 days. Many people liked the movie. It turned Stallone into a major star.
Boxer Joe Frazier has a cameo appearance in the movie. Due to the movie's low budget, members of Stallone's family played minor roles. Michael Dorn made his acting debut as Creed's bodyguard.
"Rocky" received ten Academy Awards nominations in nine categories, winning three:
The Directors Guild of America awarded "Rocky" its annual award for best movie of the year. It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay. The Writers Guild of America Award selected it as the 78th best screenplay of all time.
 

</doc>
<doc id="20620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20620" title="The Deer Hunter">
The Deer Hunter

The Deer Hunter is a 1978 American drama movie. It is set from 1967-1975 and is about three friends from Pennsylvania affected by the Vietnam War.
The movie won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director. It was named by the American Film Institute as the 53rd Greatest Movie of All Time. It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay. In 1996, "The Deer Hunter" was picked to keep in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.
"Deer Hunter" was shown at one theater each in New York and Los Angeles for a week on December 8, 1978. The release was to qualify the movie for the Oscars. And one week would build interest. After the Oscar nominations, Universal widened the distribution to include major cities. A full-scale release was on February 23, 1979, just following the Oscars.
The movie's first reviews were largely enthusiastic. Many critics said it was the best American epic since Francis Ford Coppola's "The Godfather". Some people though did not like how the movie used Russian roulette.
Many people did not like Cimino's next movie, "Heaven's Gate". Because they thought it was so bad, they also changed their thoughts on "The Deer Hunter". Instead of liking the movie people said they did not like it anymore.

</doc>
<doc id="20624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20624" title="Tailor">
Tailor

A tailor is a person whose job is to make clothes to fit people. A tailor might make a new piece of clothing, or change an item so that it fits better. They also mend (fix) clothes. A tailor is also called a seamster, or a seamstress for a woman.

</doc>
<doc id="20625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20625" title="Template">
Template

A template is a tool that shows the shape of something or it is a tool to help make something. It can separate the form of something from the things inside it.
In drawing, a template can be a wood, plastic or metal tool that is used to help make marks with a pen or pencil. Lines can be drawn on paper, or on metal or wood to make the same shape many times.
In publishing for example, a template is a made by someone else to give an idea what to write in different parts of a book or story. A simple publishing template can have spaces for the words, for pictures, for the story title (name), and for the name of the publication.
Humans or machines can use templates. Some computer programs that work with the Internet use a template to separate the way the program works from the way it shows the words and pictures. It can be a way to copy words and pictures. In computer programming, templates save time because the programmer does not need to write the same words over and over.
When doctors plan to give a person a new bone joint made of metal or plastic, they can use a template in the shape of the new joint. This type of template is put on an x-ray picture of the person to help to decide the size of joint needed.

</doc>
<doc id="20626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20626" title="Oliver!">
Oliver!

Oliver! is a musical. It is based on the novel, "Oliver Twist" by Charles Dickens. The book, lyrics, and music were written by Lionel Bart.
"Oliver!" had its world premiere on 30 June 1960 at the New Theatre in the West End. It ran for 2621 performances. The musical was directed by Peter Coe, and choreographed by Malcolm Clare. It starred Ron Moody as Fagin, Georgia Brown as Nancy, Martin Horsey as Dodger, and Keith Hamshere as Oliver.
"Oliver!" opened on Broadway at the Imperial Theatre on 6 January 1963. Georgia Brown reprised her role as Nancy, Clive Revill played Fagin, Davy Jones played Dodger, and Bruce Prochnik played Oliver. It won three Tony Awards including Best Original Score.
In 1968, the musical was adapted to a movie of the same name. The movie won the Academy Award for Best Picture.

</doc>
<doc id="20627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20627" title="Patton">
Patton

Patton can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20629" title="Dr. Hook &amp; The Medicine Show">
Dr. Hook &amp; The Medicine Show

Dr. Hook & The Medicine Show or simply just Dr. Hook was an American band. They formed in Union City, New Jersey in 1968. Their two best known songs were "Cover of the Rolling Stone" and "Sylvia's Mother".

</doc>
<doc id="20630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20630" title="Glider">
Glider

Gliders are aircraft which do not have a motor. Gliders are controlled by their pilots by using control-sticks. Some gliders can only carry one person; others can carry two. In gliders with two seats, each pilot has a control-stick. Gliders always have seats for the pilots.
'Sailplanes' are gliders with long wings so that they will only lose height slowly. In some places a vertical draft makes the air go up faster than the glider is going down. The pilot of a glider can make it climb by flying to these places. This is called soaring. Good pilots can travel long distances by always finding rising air. Some pilots race each other over hundreds of kilometres each day. Other pilots just fly for fun.
Gliders cannot get into the air by themselves. They are pulled into the air by an aircraft with a motor or they are pulled up by motor on the ground.
There are two other types of gliders. Hang-gliders have frames to give the wings their shape, but do not have seats for their pilots and do not have control-sticks. The wings of paragliders are like parachutes and so do not have frames to give them their shape. These other two types of glider are often launched from the tops of hills or cliffs.

</doc>
<doc id="20632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632" title="Category:Ethiopia">
Category:Ethiopia


</doc>
<doc id="20637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20637" title="John Stuart Mill">
John Stuart Mill

John "Stuart Little" Mill, known as "John Stuart Mill" (May 20, 1806 – May 8, 1873), was an English philosopher and political economist. He was a classical liberal thinker of the 19th century. He was for utilitarianism, and he loved the ethical theory first proposed by his third godfather Jeremy Bentham.

</doc>
<doc id="20638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20638" title="Jeremy Bentham">
Jeremy Bentham

Jeremy Bentham (15 February 1748–6 June 1832) was an English, jurist, philosopher, and legal and social reformer. He is best known as one of the first people to be for utilitarianism and animal rights and gay rights. 
Bentham was one of the most influential (classical) liberals, partially through his writings but particularly through his students all around the world, including John Stuart Mill and several political leaders (and Robert Owen, who later started the idea of socialism). He is believed to be the innovator of classical liberalism, a term first coined in the 19th century.
After he died, his body was preserved and is on public display at University College London to this day.

</doc>
<doc id="20644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20644" title="Dinosaur Comics">
Dinosaur Comics

Dinosaur Comics is a comic by Ryan North. It shows dinosaurs who have adventures and talk about philosophy and some other topics. The art is the same every day, but the words are different. This comic is intended to be funny.
Things in the comic that are not true: 

</doc>
<doc id="20646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20646" title="Lucid dream">
Lucid dream

A lucid dream is a dream where the person knows that they are dreaming. The person can then try to control things in the dream because it is not real. In a lucid dream, it is possible to do anything the dreamer wants, such as flying.
Some people have lucid dreams for spiritual reasons, but they can also be used for fun or to stop bad dreams.
Although some people can have lucid dreams without trying, most people do not have them often. It is important to be able to remember dreams, because if the dreamer does not remember them, he or she will not know if they were lucid dreams or not. Remembering dreams becomes easier if they are written in a dream diary upon waking up. 
There are some ways that help make lucid dreams more likely. Stephen LaBerge, a psychologist who studies lucid dreams, made the MILD (mnemonic induction of lucid dreaming) technique. To do this, the dreamer must wake up after having a dream, and visualise himself or herself being in the dream again, except now knowing it is a dream. The dreamer should think "the next time I am dreaming, I want to remember I am dreaming", and should concentrate on this while returning to sleep.
There are many other ways to help someone lucid dream. One other way is to fall asleep while keeping the mind awake. This is called the WILD (wake induced lucid dreaming) technique. It is easiest to perform after waking up from a few hours of sleep.

</doc>
<doc id="20659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20659" title="My Fair Lady">
My Fair Lady

My Fair Lady is a musical. It is based on George Bernard Shaw's play, "Pygmalion", and on the movie adaptation of the play starring Wendy Hiller and Leslie Howard. The book and lyrics for the musical were written by Alan Jay Lerner. The music was written by Frederick Loewe. 
The musical premiered on Broadway on 15 March 1956 at the Mark Hellinger Theatre. It moved to other theatres in New York during its original run, and closed on 29 September 1962 after 2,717 performances. It starred Rex Harrison, Julie Andrews, Robert Coote, and Stanley Holloway. It was directed by Moss Hart. 
The West End production opened on 30 April 1958 at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. Harrison, Andrews, Coote, and Holloway played their Broadway roles. It ran for five and one-half years for 2,281 performances.
The musical won the Tony Award for Best Musical. 
The musical was made into a movie in 1964 starring Audrey Hepburn and Rex Harrison. 

</doc>
<doc id="20660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20660" title="A Man for All Seasons">
A Man for All Seasons

A Man for All Seasons is a play by Robert Bolt about the life of Sir Thomas More that was first put on in 1960. It was made into a movie in 1966 that won the Best Picture Academy Award that year. It was also made into a TV movie in 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="20662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20662" title="Composite number">
Composite number

A composite number (or simply a "composite") is a natural number, that can be found by multiplying prime numbers.
For example, the number "9" can be found by multiplying "3" by "3", and the number "12". You get it by multiplying "3", "2" and "2".
All natural numbers (greater than 1) can be put in one of the two classes below:

</doc>
<doc id="20663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20663" title="Fundamental theorem of arithmetic">
Fundamental theorem of arithmetic

The Fundamental theorem of arithmetic (also called the unique factorization theorem) is a theorem of number theory. The theorem says that "every" positive integer greater than 1 can be written as a product of prime numbers (or the integer is itself a prime number). The theorem also says that there is only one way to write the number. If two people found two different ways to write the number, the only thing that can be different is the order in which the primes are written. For example, we can write:
and if somebody else finds "another" way to write 6936 or 1200 as product of prime numbers, we can put those prime numbers in the right order and find out that it is the same as what we have here. Finding the prime numbers is called factorization. 
This theorem can be used in cryptography.
The first person who proved the theorem was Euclid. The first detailed and correct proof was in the "Disquisitiones Arithmeticae" by Carl Friedrich Gauß. 
Some people may think that the theorem is true everywhere. However, the theorem is "not" true in more general number systems, like algebraic integers. This was first mentioned by Ernst Kummer in 1843, in his work on Fermat's last theorem. For more information about that: read algebraic number theory. 
The proof consists of two parts: "first" we show that every number can be written as a product of primes; "second" we show that if we write a number as a product of primes for a second time, then the two lists of prime numbers must be the same. 
We show that if "not" every number greater than 1 can be written as a product of primes, we end up in some kind of impossibility. So after that we conclude that it "must" be true that every number can be written as a product of primes. 
So, now see what happens when somebody says that he knows a positive integer, greater than 1, which can "not" be written as a product of primes. In that case we ask him to mention "all" the numbers, greater than 1, that can "not" be written as a product of primes. One of these numbers must be the "smallest": let's call it "n". Of course, this number "n" cannot be 1. Further, it cannot be a prime number, because a prime number is a 'product' of a single prime: itself. So it "must" be a product of numbers. Thus 
where both "a" and "b" are positive integers that are of course smaller than "n". But: "n" was the "smallest" number that can not be written as a product of primes. So it must be possible to write "a" and "b" as products of primes, because they are both smaller than "n". But then the product 
can be written as a product of primes as well. This is an impossibility because we said that "n" can not be written as a product of primes. 
We have now shown the impossibility which exists if the first part of the theorem would not be true. In this way we have now proven the first part of the theorem. 
Now we have to prove that there is only one way to write a positive number greater than 1 as a product of prime numbers. 
To do this, we use the following lemma: if a prime number "p" divides a product "ab", then it divides "a" or it divides "b" (Euclid's lemma). 
First we now prove this lemma. Well, assume now that "p" does not divide "a". Then "p" and "a" are coprime and we have Bezout's identity that says that there must be integers "x" and "y" such that 
Multiplying everything with "b" gives 
Remember that "ab" could be divided by "p". So now, on the left-hand side we have two terms that are divisible by "p". So the term on the right-hand side is also divisible by "p". We have now proven that if "p" does not divide "a", it must divide "b". That proves the lemma. 
Now we will prove that we can write an integer greater than 1 in "only one" way as a product of prime numbers. Take two products of primes "A" and "B" which have the same outcome. So we know for the outcome of the products that "A" = "B". Take any prime "p" from the first product "A". It divides the "A", so it also divides "B". Using several times the lemma that we just proved, we can see that "p" must then divide at least one factor "b" of "B". But the factors are all primes themselves, so also "b" is prime. But we know that "p" is also prime, so "p" must be equal to "b". So now we divide "A" by "p" and also divide "B" by "p". And we get a result like "A*" = "B*". Again we can take a prime "p" from the first product "A*" and find out that is equal to some number in the product "B*". Continuing in this way, at the end we see that the prime factors of the two products must be exactly the same. This proves that we can write a positive integer as a product of primes in only one unique way.

</doc>
<doc id="20666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20666" title="A Portuguesa">
A Portuguesa

A Portuguesa (pronounced IPA:([]) is the national anthem of Portugal. Only the first part of the lyrics is the national anthem. The other parts, or "stanzas", are part of the song, but not part of the anthem. 
"Heróis do Mar"
"Nobre Povo"
"Nação Valente"
"Imortal"
"Levantai hoje de novo"
"O explendor de Portugal"
"Entre as brumas da memória"
"Ó pátria sente-se a voz"
"Dos teus Egrégios Avós"
"Que hão de guiar-te à vitória!"
"Às armas, Às armas"
"Sobre a terra, sobre o mar"
"Às armas, Às armas"
"Pela pátria lutar"
"Contra os canhões marchar, marchar!"

</doc>
<doc id="20667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20667" title="Welding">
Welding

Welding is a way of heating pieces of metal using electricity or a flame so that they melt and stick together. There are many kinds of welding, including arc welding, resistance welding, and gas welding. The most common type is arc welding. Anyone who is near arc welding needs to wear a special helmet or goggles because the arc is so bright. Looking at the arc without visual protection may cause permanent eye damage. It is also important to cover all your skin because it can give you something like a sunburn. Hot sparks from the weld can burn any skin that is showing. One kind of welding that does not use an arc is Oxy-fuel welding (OFW), sometimes called gas welding. OFW uses a flame to heat up the metal. There are other kinds of welding that do not use an arc.
Any welding process that utilizes an electric arc is known as arc welding. The common forms of arc welding include: 
Shielded metal arc welding (SMAW): SMAW is also known as "stick" welding.
Gas metal arc welding (GMAW): GMAW is also known as MIG (metal/inert gas welding).
Gas tungsten arc welding (GTAW): GTAW is also known as TIG (tungsten inert gas welding).
Arc welding heats metals by making a high-current electric arc between pieces of metal to be joined and an electrode.
Use of the electrode varies based on the type of welding process. In SMAW, GMAW, and related welding processes, the electrode is consumed and becomes part of the weld. The electrode is usually made of the same kind of metal to be welded. Because the electrode is consumed by the welding process, the electrode must constantly be fed into the weld. The SMAW welding process features a "stick" electrode impregnated with a weld promoter known as flux, clamped to the end.
The GMAW welding process features a continuous electrode as a thin wire on a rotating spool. The size of this electrode varies from around 0.635 millimeters to about 4 millimeters. The welding machine has a motor-driven spool inside that feeds the wire electrode into the weld.
The TIG welding (GTAW) process features an electrode that is not consumed by the welding process as the metal that makes up the weld does not have any electricity flowing through it. The electrode is made of Tungsten, so used as it will not melt while immersed in the electrical arc. A filler metal, in the form of a rod, can be used to add metal to the weld area.
Almost all welding uses filler metal to fill in the small gap between the metal. The extra metal helps to make the weld strong. Sometimes welds need to be made without any filler metal. Welding with no filler metal is called autogenous welding.
All types of welding require that the hot metal have protection. Dirt, rust, grease, and even the oxidation of the metal under the weld process can prevent a proper weld joint. As such all weld processes use one of two protection methods: flux, and shielding gas.
Welding flux may be used in a solid, liquid, or paste form. During welding, the flux will melt and some of it will evaporate. This creates a small pocket of gas around the weld. This pocket of gas prevents oxidation of the metal under weld. Melted flux, through a corrosive reaction, cleans contaminants that prevent a proper weld. After welding, the flux solidifies. This layer of solid flux is called slag, and must be removed from the weld. The SMAW weld process most commonly uses flux, and is most commonly used on steel.
Shielding gas protects the weld by being a pocket of gas around the weld. The purpose of this gas is to keep normal air out, especially oxygen. It is different from flux because there is no liquid on the weld. There is only a gas around the weld. Because there is no liquid, it will not clean up dirt and other things on the metal. This means that the metal has to be clean before it is welded. If it is not, the dirt and other things could cause problems. The gases that are usually used are argon, helium, and a mixture that is 3 parts argon and one part carbon dioxide. Other mixtures of gases can have nitrogen, hydrogen, or even a little bit of oxygen in them. One kind of welding that uses shielding gas is gas metal arc welding. It is usually used in factories to make things.
Welding that uses flux is easier to do outside when it is windy. This is because the liquid flux is protecting the hot metal and it will not blow away. Also, the flux is always making the pocket of gas which keeps the electric arc from going out. Welding that uses shielding gas usually cannot be used outside because the gas would blow away if there were any wind.
Some kinds of welding do not use an electric arc. They might use a flame, electricity without an arc, an energy beam, or physical force. The most common type of welding that does not use an arc is called gas welding. In gas welding, a flammable(meaning it will burn) gas and oxygen are combined and burn at the end of a torch. Gas welding does not need any special shielding because a flame which is adjusted right has no extra oxygen in it. It is still important to make sure the metal is clean. The flame heats up the metal so much that it melts. When both the pieces of metal are melted at the edge, the liquid metal becomes one piece.
The other kind of welding that does not use an arc still uses electricity. It is called resistance welding. With this kind, two pieces of thin metal are pinched together and then electricity is made to go through them. This makes the metal get really hot and melt where it is pinched together. The two pieces melt together at that place. Sometimes this is called spot welding because the welding can only happen at one small place(or spot) at a time.
Forge welding is the first kind of welding that ever was used. Forge welding needs the two pieces of metal to so hot that they almost melt. Then they are beat together with hammers until they are one piece.
The other kinds of welding that do not use an arc are hard to do, and usually new. They are expensive too. Most of these kinds of welding are only done where specially needed. They might use an electron beam, laser, or ultrasonic sound waves.
Every kind of welding needs to use energy. This energy is usually heat, but sometimes force is used to make a weld. When heat is used, it can be from electricity or from fire.
A lot of electricity is used in arc welding. Some kinds of welding use alternating current like the electricity that buildings use. Other kinds use direct current like the electricity in a car or most things with a battery. Almost all kinds of welding use a lower voltage than the electricity that comes from a power plant. Arc welding requires using a special power supply that makes the electricity from the power plant usable for welding. A power supply lowers the voltage and controls the amount of current. The power supply usually has controls on it that allow these things to be changed. For kinds of arc welding that use alternating current, sometimes the power supply can do special things to make the electricity alternate differently. Some power supplies do not plug into a power plug, but instead generate their own electricity. These kind of power supplies have an engine that turns a generator head to make the electricity. The engine might run on gasoline, diesel fuel, or propane.
OFW uses a flame from burning fuel gas and oxygen to heat up the metal. This fuel gas is almost always acetylene. Acetylene is a flammable gas that burns very hot, hotter than any other gas. That is why it is used most of the time. Other gases like propane, natural gas, or other industrial gases can be used too.
Some kinds of welding do not use heat to make the weld. These kinds of welding can get hot, but they do not make the metal melt. Forge welding is an example of this. Friction stir welding is a special kind of welding that does not use heat. It uses a very powerful motor and a special spinning bit to mix the metals together at the edge. This seems odd because metals are a solid. this is why it takes a lot of force to do and is very hard. The energy for this kind of welding is mechanical energy from the spinning bit.

</doc>
<doc id="20670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20670" title="Stalking">
Stalking

Stalking means following something secretly to watch it. Predators often hunt by stalking, or by combining stalking with ambush. 
Someone who likes to watch other people is also known as a voyeur. When this is continually done to a person it can have a bad effect.
Stalking in a way that makes someone feel unsafe is a crime in many countries. It is not just one event but an ongoing process that threatens or makes that person feel scared. Someone who does this is called a stalker. The stalker may do this because they want to be involved in that person's life, because they want to have power over that person's life, or for other sexual reasons. The stalker can make that person feel scared. They may feel they do not have the power to stop the stalker. Psychologists say stalking is a way of hurting someone's mind. Sometimes a stalker may go on to hurt that person's body by assaulting, raping or murdering that person.
Stalking can sometimes be done on the internet. This is called cyberstalking.

</doc>
<doc id="20671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20671" title="Bill Cosby">
Bill Cosby

William Henry Cosby, Jr., Ed.D (July 12, 1937), known as Bill Cosby, is an American stand-up comedian, actor, author, producer, musician, and activist. He was also a regular star of movies and television.
Cosby was born and raised in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He studied at Temple University.
He is the creator of such shows as Filmation's animated "Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids", NBC's "The Cosby Show" (in which he played a doctor named Heathcliff Huxtable) and Nick at Nite's "Fatherhood" (with Blair Underwood).
On television, he starred in the 1960s spy spoof "I Spy", and has also advertised Jell-o products.
On the big screen, he appeared in "Leonard Part 6" (1987), "Ghost Dad" (1990), and "The Meteor Man" (1993).
Cosby married Camille Hanks Cosby in 1964. Together, they have five children. Cosby lives in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
In 2016 Cosby went completely blind, as a result of keratoconus.
As of December 30, 2015, numerous civil lawsuits are active against Cosby, and he faces one felony charge of aggravated indecent assault in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania; a warrant was issued for his arrest. This charge is based on the 2005 allegations of a January 2004 incident. He was released on a $1 million dollar bail later that day.
Cosby has been awarded at least 57 honorary degrees since 1985. Several of these honorary degrees have been rescinded due to allegations of sexual assault and/or immoral behavior:

</doc>
<doc id="20673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20673" title="Ham">
Ham

Ham is meat that comes from a thigh of a pig. Ham is a kind of pork, which is any meat from a pig. It is really good with pickle.
Ham can be dry-cured or wet-cured. Dry-cured ham is made by rubbing the meat with a mixture with salt. Then, it is dried and aged. Wet-cured ham is made with brine.
Kinds of dry-cured ham:
Ham is used in SPAM.

</doc>
<doc id="20675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20675" title="Spam (food)">
Spam (food)

Spam is a canned meat food made by the Hormel Foods Corporation. It is made from pork shoulder meat and ham. Spam Lite, a newer kind of Spam, is made with pork and chicken.
There have been many ideas about what the word "Spam" means. The Hormel Foods Corporation once said that it means "Shoulder of Pork and Ham", but in some dictionaries "Spam" means "SPiced hAM".
Spam was used a lot in World War II, as there wasn't proper meat. Because of that, spam was used as a rationed item.

</doc>
<doc id="20676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20676" title="Mushroom">
Mushroom

A mushroom is the fruiting body of a kind of fungus. Unlike plants, mushrooms do not use sunlight to make energy for themselves. A toadstool is another name for a mushroom. Some mushrooms can be eaten, and are used for cooking in many countries: China, Korea and many European countries. People who look for mushrooms to eat are called "mycophagists", meaning "mushroom eater". The act of looking for mushrooms is simply called "mushrooming".
Most mushrooms have a stem and a cap. The bottom of the cap sometimes has gills to hold spores, and sometimes holds the spores themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="20678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20678" title="Factorization">
Factorization

Factorization (or factorisation) is taking a composite number apart into numbers that multiply together to get the original number. These smaller numbers are called factors or divisors. 1 is a factor of all numbers.
Prime factorization is breaking apart a composite numbers into prime numbers that can be multiplied to give the larger number. Note that since 1 is not prime, it is not included in the prime factorization.
For example, 12 can be factorized as 4 × 3. Since 4 is not a prime number, that is not its prime factorization. 12's prime factorization is in fact 3 × 2 × 2.
The numbers which are obtained from the factorization are usually ordered, for example, starting with the smallest number. For example, 72=2^3*3^2. The factorization of every number is unique. This generalizes to:
Since finding the numbers to multiply together is very difficult for large numbers, this fact can be used in cryptography.

</doc>
<doc id="20680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20680" title="Joint">
Joint

A joint is the place where two or more bones make contact. They allow movement (except for skull bones) and give mechanical support.
Joints have cartilage in between them, which help to make the movement flexible. Joints are described structurally and functionally. Structural classification is how the bones connect to each other; function is the degree of movement between the articulating bones. 

</doc>
<doc id="20682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20682" title="Hosni Mubarak">
Hosni Mubarak

Muhammad Hosni Said Mubarak (; born 4 May 1928), commonly known as Hosni Mubarak (), is a former President of Egypt. He was in that position from from 14 October 1981 to 11 February 2011.
Mubarak became the Vice-President of the Republic of Egypt after moving up the ranks of the Egyptian Air Force. Then he became the President after President Anwar Sadat was assassinated on 6 October 1981. His almost thirty-year presidency made him Egypt's longest-serving ruler since Muhammad Ali Pasha. 
As President of Egypt, Mubarak is thought to have been one of the most powerful leaders in the region. Under the 1971 Constitution of Egypt, Mubarak exercised strong control over the country and was generally considered a dictator. In 2005, he called an election and easily won it. Many opponents believed Mubarak changed the election results so he could win.
In early 2011, during the Arab Spring, there were huge protests against his government. In the end, Mubarak resigned and handed over power to the armed forces. It is hoped that elections later that year for a new government. On 2 June 2012, Mubarak was sentenced to life imprisonment for ordering the shooting of protesters in the revolution that ousted him. 

</doc>
<doc id="20683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20683" title="Euclid">
Euclid

Euclid of Alexandria (Greek: ) (about 325 BC–265 BC) was a Greek mathematician who lived in Alexandria, Egypt and worked at the Library of Alexandria. Little is known about this person, but people think he lived there when Ptolemy I was Pharaoh. It is not known where or when he was born.
Euclid collected together all that was known of geometry, which is part of mathematics. His "Elements" is the main source of ancient geometry. Textbooks based on Euclid have been used up to the present day. In the book, he starts out from a small set of axioms (that is, a group of things that everyone thinks are true). Euclid then shows the properties of geometric objects and of whole numbers, based on those axioms.
The "Elements" also includes works on perspective, conic sections, spherical geometry, and possibly quadric surfaces. Apart from geometry, the work also includes number theory. Euclid came up with the idea of "greatest common divisors". They were in his "Elements". The greatest common divisor of two numbers is the greatest number that can fit evenly in both of the two numbers.
The geometrical system described in the "Elements" was long known simply as geometry, and was considered to be the only geometry possible. Today that system is referred to as Euclidean geometry to distinguish it from other so-called non-Euclidean geometries which mathematicians developed in the 19th century.
In addition to the "Elements", at least five works of Euclid have survived to the present day. They follow the same logical structure as "Elements", with definitions and proved propositions.

</doc>
<doc id="20689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20689" title="Guadeloupe">
Guadeloupe

Guadeloupe is part of France in the Caribbean Sea. It is made up of five islands. The capital is Basse-Terre. 
Arawak Native Americans first lived on the islands. Most died when Europeans came. Guadeloupe was first governed by the French Company of the American Islands. It was then taken over by England, given to Sweden, and given back to France. 
Today, most of the people in Guadeloupe are Roman Catholic and are of African descent.

</doc>
<doc id="20690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20690" title="1770">
1770


</doc>
<doc id="20694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20694" title="1616">
1616


</doc>
<doc id="20695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20695" title="Lou Reed">
Lou Reed

Lewis Allan "Lou" Reed (March 2, 1942 - October 27, 2013) was an American rock musician. He was originally from Long Island, New York and spent most of his life in New York City. He is remembered for being in the Velvet Underground, although he also released solo work. He was friends with artist Andy Warhol.
Lewis Allan Reed was born on March 2, 1942 in Brooklyn, New York City. He studied at Syracuse University. Reed was raised Jewish.
Reed began his career in 1964. He is perhaps most famous for his songs "Walk on the Wild Side" (about Candy Darling and other such people Reed had known), "Perfect Day" (which was covered by many other artists, including Duran Duran and a version used by the BBC) and "Heroin" (an "love song" about the drug). Reed's 1989 album "New York" drew attention and praise, for its matter-of-fact look at the condition of New York City in the late 1980s.
At the height of his popularity as a solo artist, Reed released one of the least "commercial" recordings ever; his 1975 experimental album "Metal Machine Music". It was an hour of electric guitar feedback, and not what many people thought was music. The album did not hurt his career in the long run, and it reminded people that Reed was a unique musician.
Because of his song about heroin, Reed was believed to have been addicted to the drug, but this was not the case. He was a longtime user of , marijuana and tobacco, but gradually stopped using any drugs. He began exercising more, and enjoyed .
In May 2000, Reed performed before Pope John Paul II at the Great Jubilee Concert in Rome.
Reed was bisexual. He was married to Betty Reed from 1973 until they divorced in 1978. Then he was married to Sylvia Morales from 1980 until they divorced in 1994. Then he was married to Laurie Anderson, the performance artist and musician, from 2008 until his death in 2013. Reed had no children.
In April 2013, Reed had a liver transplant. He died from a liver disease on October 27, 2013 in his home in Long Island, New York. He was 71 years old.
Tributes were paid to Reed on Twitter, including those from Miley Cyrus, Salman Rushdie, Samuel L. Jackson, Lenny Kravitz, Ricky Gervais, Ryan Adams, Elijah Wood, and many others. John Cale, his Velvet Underground bandmate, posted on his Facebook: "The world has lost a fine songwriter and poet…I've lost my 'school-yard buddy'".

</doc>
<doc id="20699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20699" title="Albany">
Albany

Albany can be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="20702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20702" title="Augusta">
Augusta

Augusta may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="20708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20708" title="Berkeley">
Berkeley

Berkeley could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20719" title="Charleston">
Charleston

Charleston might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="20725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20725" title="Anthropomorphism">
Anthropomorphism

Anthropomorphism is making something which is not a human, more human-like in a story or art.
This can mean making the thing shaped more like a human. It can mean giving it human emotions, goals, or the ability to talk. It is often used in stories. The thing or object may be an animal, plant, deity, sound, storm, idea, or anything else.
The story of the "Three Little Pigs" has a wolf and pigs who talk and act like humans. Mickey Mouse also talks and acts like a human. These are examples of a type of anthropomorphism called furry.
The novel "The Call of the Wild" also uses anthropomorphism. The main character is a dog named Buck. Many other characters are dogs and wolves. In the story, the animals think and act more like humans than real dogs do.
Humans are good at knowing why other humans do things. Humans are not as good at knowing why non-human things (like animals) do things. This can lead to people assuming non-human things will act or think like humans. This is the reason art that shows gods or alien life often shows them as human-like.
Another reason is that humans easily relate to characters who look human, but having them look like different animals makes them easy to tell apart. This is why children's stories often have anthropomorphic animals as people.
Anthropomorphism can happen by mistake too. Scientists have to be careful not to assume the things they are studying will act or think like humans. Doing that can stop them from better understanding what they are studying.

</doc>
<doc id="20727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20727" title="Category:Egypt">
Category:Egypt


</doc>
<doc id="20731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731" title="Apostrophe">
Apostrophe

The apostrophe (’) is a punctuation mark used in writing. It is a diacritic (a mark used with letters). 
In English, it has two jobs:
The most common grammatical mistake in written English is to put "it's" where "its" is correct. 
Its: a possessive adjective and pronoun of the personal pronoun "it". 
"It's": a contraction of the verbal phrase "It is" or "It has".
The same applies to "yours", "theirs" and "ours" because these are also possessive adjectives of personal pronouns.
Apostropes are also used to show something belongs to someone (or something). Again, correct uses can be expanded:
Comes in plurals which don't ("do not") need it. Do not put an apostrophe in word ending in s, such as a plural. Put an apostrophe, or 's, at the end of the word instead.
Apostrophes are also used when other words are shortened, as in slang:
This is just a version of the abbreviation function.

</doc>
<doc id="20734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20734" title="Ryan North">
Ryan North

Ryan M. North (born October 20, 1980) is a Canadian writer. He is the author of the comic strip Dinosaur Comics, as well as Whispered Apologies and several other projects. He is also the programmer of ohnorobot, a web comic search engine. Ryan North is also a member of The Ryans, a group dedicated to being called Ryan and making comics.

</doc>
<doc id="20736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20736" title="By-election">
By-election

A by-election or bye-election is a type of special election.
A General Election is the name of an election for all members of an elected body. A by-election is the name of an election for just some members.
A by-election could be needed if a member dies or resigns while in political office. They are also used if a person is removed from office for some reason, for example he/she is guilty of a crime or is not qualified to be a member anymore.
In the 1980s all 12 of the Unionist MPs in the British House of Commons resigned and all of the elections happened on the same day. Although unusual, these were still only by-elections.

</doc>
<doc id="20762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20762" title="Secretary">
Secretary

A secretary is a person who is employed to help in an office, and help the people in charge of the office do their job. 
By definition, the main task of a secretary is to keep organized paper and electronic files for the business, school, hospital, or government agency they work for. Other common jobs that secretaries do are answering telephones; typing and writing letters; plan and schedule meetings with guests; and manage the website of their office.
In different workplaces, and for different reasons, a secretary may also be called an administrative assistant, receptionist, clerk, or executive assistant.
In the past, most secretaries were men. Today, 98% of secretaries are women, according to the US Census. 
In 1952, several groups, for example the National Secretaries Association, founded Secretary's Day. It is celebrated in the 4th week of April. It has been renamed "Administrative Professional's Week" to represent the more challenging roles of secretaries today. 
In government, secretaries are important people who hold high positions in government. Many secretaries in government are in charge of government agencies. 
In the United Kingdom, a Secretary of State is a senior Cabinet Minister in charge of a Government Department. 
In the United States, the Secretary of State is in charge of dealing with other countries. The current US Secretary of State is John Kerry.

</doc>
<doc id="20763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20763" title="Happiness">
Happiness

Happiness is a feeling of pleasure and positivity. When someone feels good, proud, relieved or satisfied about something, that person is said to be "happy". Feeling happy may help people to relax and to smile. 
Happiness is usually thought of as the opposite of sadness. However, it is possible to feel both at once, often about different things, or sometimes even about the same thing.
Many philosophers have said that people in the world go back and forth between times of happiness and sadness, but there is nobody who is always happy or always sad. Happiness sometimes causes people to cry when they laugh because the emotion takes control of them. Happiness was thought of as the key to love in ancient civilizations such as the Incas and the Mayans.
Happiness is also a type where one and another love each other and would like to enjoy having a baby and will enjoy in doing so.

</doc>
<doc id="20764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20764" title="Perfect number">
Perfect number

A number is called a perfect number if by adding all the positive divisors of the number (except itself), the result is the number itself.
6 is the first perfect number. Its divisors (other than the number itself: 6) are 1, 2, and 3 and 1 + 2 + 3 equals 6. Other perfect numbers include 28, 496 and 8128.
Euclid discovered that the first four perfect numbers are generated by the formula 2(2 - 1):
Euclid saw that 2 - 1 is a prime number in these four cases. He then proved that the formula 2(2 - 1) gives an even perfect number whenever 2 - 1 is prime (Euclid, Prop. IX.36).
Ancient mathematicians made many assumptions about perfect numbers based on the four they knew. Most of the assumptions were wrong. One of these assumptions was that since 2, 3, 5, and 7 are precisely the first four primes, the fifth perfect number would be obtained when "n" = 11, the fifth prime. However, 2 - 1 = 2047 = 23 × 89 is not prime and therefore "n" = 11 does not give a perfect number. Two other wrong assumptions were:
The fifth perfect number (formula_1) has 8 digits. This falsifies the first assumption. For the second assumption, the fifth perfect number indeed ends with a 6. However, the sixth (8 589 869 056) also ends in a 6. It is straightforward to show the last digit of any even perfect number must be 6 or 8.
In order for formula_2 to be prime, it is necessary that formula_3 should be prime. Prime numbers of the form 2 - 1 are known as Mersenne primes, after the seventeenth-century monk Marin Mersenne, who studied number theory and perfect numbers.
Two millennia after Euclid, Euler proved that the formula 2(2 - 1) will yield all the even perfect numbers. Therefore, every Mersenne prime will yield a distinct even perfect number–there is a concrete one-to-one association between even perfect numbers and Mersenne primes. This result is often referred to as the "Euclid-Euler Theorem". Till January 2013, only 48 Mersenne primes are known. This means there are 48 perfect numbers known, the largest being 2 × (2 - 1) with 34,850,340 digits.
The first 42 even perfect numbers are 2(2 - 1) for
The other 7 known are for "n" = 30402457, 32582657, 37156667, 42643801, 43112609, 57885161, 74207281.
It is currently not known whether there are others between them.
It is still not known if there are infinitely many Mersenne primes and perfect numbers. The search for new Mersenne primes is the goal of the GIMPS distributed computing project.
Since any even perfect number has the form 2(2 - 1), it is a triangular number, and, like all triangular numbers, it is the sum of all natural numbers up to a certain point; in this case: 2 - 1. Also, any even perfect number except the first one is the sum of the first 2 odd cubes:
It is not known whether there are any odd perfect numbers. Various results have been obtained, but none that has helped to locate one or otherwise resolve the question of their existence. Carl Pomerance has presented a heuristic argument which suggests that no odd perfect numbers exist. Also, it has been conjectured that there are no odd Ore's harmonic numbers. If true, this would mean that there are no odd perfect numbers.
Any odd perfect number "N" must satisfy the following conditions:
Let formula_9 be odd perfect number. Since divisor function is multiplicative,
formula_10.
formula_11 must be an even not divisible by 4 and all the remaining must be odd.
formula_12
forces formula_13.
Even perfect numbers have a very precise form; odd perfect numbers are rare, if indeed they do exist. There are a number of results on perfect numbers that are actually quite easy to prove but nevertheless superficially impressive; some of them also come under Richard Guy's Strong Law of Small Numbers:
The sum of proper divisors gives various other kinds of numbers. Numbers where the sum is less than the number itself are called deficient, and where it is greater than the number, abundant. These terms, together with "perfect" itself, come from Greek numerology. A pair of numbers which are the sum of each other's proper divisors are called amicable, and larger cycles of numbers are called sociable. A positive integer such that every smaller positive integer is a sum of distinct divisors of it is a practical number.
By definition, a perfect number is a fixed point of the restricted sum-of-divisors function s(n) = σ(n) − n, and the aliquot sequence associated with a perfect number is a constant sequence.

</doc>
<doc id="20768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20768" title="StarCraft">
StarCraft

StarCraft is a real-time strategy game for the PC. It was created in 1998 by Blizzard Entertainment.
The story is set in the future, where humans (called "Terrans") get stuck in a war between two alien species, the "Zerg" and the "Protoss". The Zerg look like monsters, and are all controlled by a very powerful Zerg called the "Overmind". They fly around the universe and invade planets. The Protoss, who have very advanced technology, look for the planets that the Zerg have taken over. When they find a Zerg planet, they burn it so that the Zerg on that planet cannot spread to others. In the original series human protagonist Jim Raynor and several Protoss allies attack and defeat the Overmind. In "Starcraft: Brood War" Jim's ex-partner Sarah Kerrigan uses deceit and trickery to manipulate the Terran and Protoss into helping her take control of the entire Zerg brood, making her the strongest force in the galaxy.
"StarCraft" players can choose to be the Protoss, Zerg, or Terran. Each race has different soldiers and buildings. Players can choose one-player or multiplayer games. In both, the player must build a base, gather resources, and make fighters to attack the enemy.
In one-player mode, there is the Campaign mode, and Custom mode. In Campaign mode, the player goes through a series of missions, which tell the story. Custom mode lets a player choose what race they want to be, what area they want to play on, and what race they will fight against (all enemies are controlled by the computer).
During a game, the player must use units to gather minerals and vespene gas. They must also build structures or units which provide "supplies". Each type of unit costs a certain amount of gas, minerals, and supplies. If the player does not have enough of a resource, he or she cannot build more units. Also, there is a supply limit, 200 units, to make the game more fair. Resources are gathered by worker units. Minerals are needed for all units and buildings, and come as blue crystals from the ground. Vespene gas is needed for stronger units and comes as a geyser with green smoke blowing out of it. A special building must be built on these geysers before worker units can gather the gas.
There are many different buildings in the game. Some buildings let the player build units, and other buildings can make units stronger, or do research to let more powerful units be built. Every units needs something called 'supply', which is supplied by buildings or units that are different in each species. Players need to have supply, because if they do not they cannot build any more units. No player can have more than two hundred supply, so they can only build a certain number of units.
Each species has very different types of units. The Protoss have powerful warriors and machinery, which cost a lot, and the Zerg use many fast, cheap units to defeat their enemies. The Terran are a middle between these, having strong but easy to kill units that are very powerful when they are used in formation. No species in "StarCraft" is more powerful than another species. Blizzard has released many small updates to the game that keep all the species balanced. 
To win, players must capture and use resources wisely, and use smart strategies. To become very skilled at the game, players also need to become good at micromanagement and macromanagement all at the same time. Macromanagement means building new bases and collecting resources. Micromanagement means moving units so that they can use their special powers to protect each other, and doing many small things to make the fight go smoothly. This makes "StarCraft" different from many newer games, because the newer games often will do much of the micromanagement without the player having to do it.
"Starcraft" is 14 years old, but still played by many people, in many countries around the world. It is very popular in countries like Korea and the United States.
On May 19, 2007 Blizzard said that they are making StarCraft II. Also, they have held some events for South Korean Starcraft pro-gamers to participate and give them assist about the game.

</doc>
<doc id="20769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20769" title="Acid rain">
Acid rain

Acid rain is rain that is unusually acidic. It is rain with high levels of hydrogen ions (low pH). 
Acid rain can have harmful effects on plants, animals and humans. It is caused when gaseous compounds of ammonium, carbon, nitrogen, and sulphur are released into the atmosphere. The wind carries the gases high into the sky. There the compounds react with the water in the atmosphere and acids are made. In 1852, Robert Angus Smith showed the relationship between acid rain and atmospheric pollution in Manchester. He coined the term "acid rain" in 1872.
Acid rain is caused by acids mixing with air. The largest source of acid is sulfur dioxide. Carbon dioxide and various oxides of nitrogen also make acid in the atmosphere. These chemicals are both natural and artificial. 
There are various natural causes, such as gases from volcanoes. However, it is thought that air pollution by people now causes most acid rain. People started producing more acidic gases when they started building factories and power stations. These buildings as well as houses and vehicles burn coal or oil that have sulfur in them. This releases gases into the air that produce acid rain. Governments have tried since the 1970s to reduce the amount of sulfur being released into the Earth's atmosphere, and have had good results so far. However, it is expensive to clean the smoke from factories and power stations. In 2001 Great Britain still produced about five million tonnes of these gases every year; and China produced 18 million tonnes. The United States produced more than 20 million tonnes then, which declined to 8.1 million in 2010.
Acid rain can also be caused naturally. For example, acids can be made by nitrogen compounds made by lightning, and volcanic eruptions can release sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere.
Acid rain has been shown to have a bad impact on forests, freshwater and soil. It kills insect and aquatic life-forms as well as causes damage to buildings and having impacts on human health.
Acid rain poisons rivers and lakes. Fish and other animals cannot live in acid water. It is also bad for buildings as the acid damages calcium carbonate stone. The acid dissolves it. Many buildings and monuments have been damaged by acid rain.

</doc>
<doc id="20774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20774" title="Charlie Parker">
Charlie Parker

Charlie Parker (August 29, 1920 in Kansas City, Missouri – March 12, 1955 in New York City), also known as "Bird" or "Yardbird", was considered one of the greatest jazz saxophonists, specifically alto saxophonist. Parker was thought to have created bebop.
Parker died in New York City at the age of 34 from cirrhosis, internal bleeding and pneumonia caused by a heart attack.
This next part is written by Situ Zhao, please subscribe me on youtube type Situ Zhao and then you'll find Neuro-X that's my channel
The American Jazz Saxophonist and composer was known for creating the style of Jazz called Bebop or for short, Bop. Bebop is a style of Jazz containing a fast tempo, complex chord progression, a rapid chord change, and numerous changes of keys. This has also inspired other Jazz composer to make Bebop music like Tenor sax player Dexter Gordon, Sonny Rolins, and James Moody; trumpeters Fats-Navorro and Dizzy Gillespie; pianists Bud Powell and Thelonious Monk; electric guitarist Charlie Christians, and the drummer Mas Roach.
Parker began playing Saxophone at age of 11, and at the age of 14, he joined his school band using a rented school instrument. His father, Charles, was often absent but provided some musical influence; he was a pianist, dancer, singer on T.O.B.A circus. He later became a pull man waiter and a chef on the railways. Parkers' mother Addie worked nights at the local Western Union office. Unfortunately, while parker was watching The Dorsey Brothers' Stage show, he had a sudden heart attack and the young legend died.

</doc>
<doc id="20775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20775" title="Mount Price">
Mount Price

Mount Price (sometimes Price Mountain) is a volcanic mountain in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt, in British Columbia, Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="20776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20776" title="Bun">
Bun

A bun is a type of food made out of bread.
A bun can be either savoury (like a hot dog) or sweet (like a hot cross bun or a bun with icing and a cherry on top).

</doc>
<doc id="20778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20778" title="Goldfinger (band)">
Goldfinger (band)

Goldfinger is an American punk band. It was founded in 1994. They released their self-titled first album in 1996. They were named after the Ian Fleming book and 1964 movie "Goldfinger", based on the James Bond franchise.
Their line-up is as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="20779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20779" title="Salamanca">
Salamanca

Salamanca is a city in central Spain. It is the capital city of the province with the same name. 
The city has a very important university started in 1218. It has two cathedrals and a famous Plaza Mayor (Main Square) built in the 18th century.
Salamanca has quite an obsession with frogs, and souvenirs of frogs can be found in almost every shop in the Plaza Mayor.
The Battle of Salamanca was an important defeat for France in the Napoleonic Wars.
Museums

</doc>
<doc id="20780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20780" title="1440s">
1440s


</doc>
<doc id="20781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20781" title="Tudor dynasty">
Tudor dynasty

The Tudor dynasty was a series of kings and queens of England. This line of rulers started in 1485 and lasted until 1603. 
The dynasty started when Henry VII defeated Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field. This was the final stage of the Wars of the Roses. Henry Tudor then became the king of England. Arthur, Prince of Wales, was the oldest son of Henry VII and Elizabeth of York. He married Catherine of Argon. She was the daughter of Ferdinand II of Argon and Isabella I of Castle). Arthur died in 1502 and did not become King. When Henry VII died in 1509, Arthur's brother, Henry VIII married Catherine and became king. 
During her marriage to Henry VIII, Catherine had six children. Only one of these children, Mary, survived. When Catherine became too old to have any more children, Henry divorced her. He then married a new wife, Anne Boleyn. Henry and Boleyn also had a daughter, Elizabeth. Anne Boleyn was executed in 1536. Shortly after, Henry VIII married Jane Seymour of England. She had one son, Edward VI of England, who would later become king himself at the age of 9. Jane died in 1537. Her death was caused by medical problems caused by Edward's birth
Henry married three other wives before his death in 1547. Edward, his only living son, became King after Henry died.
In 1553, Edward became ill. He created the "Device for Succession.". He said that his cousin, Lady Jane Grey, would be Queen after he died. Lady Jane was queen for only nine days.
Henry's daughter, Mary I of England, was the next ruler of the Tudor dynasty. Mary was a strong believer in Catholicism. As Queen, Mary did many things against hundreds of Protestants. Because of all the executions while she was Queen, she was given the nickname "Bloody Mary"
After Mary's death in 1558, her half-sister Elizabeth I of England became queen. Unlike Mary, Elizabeth was a Protestant. Elizabeth never married or had children. Because she never married, Elizabeth is often called the "Virgin Queen". She was well liked by most of the people of England.
The dynasty ended when Elizabeth died. She had not named a person to be ruler after her death. When she died, James I became King of England. He was the son of Elizabeth's cousin, Mary Stuart. This started the Stuart dynasty.
During the Tudor period, there were many changes in religion. Henry VIII was a Catholic. When the Pope said he could not divorce Catherine, Henry left Catholicism and named himself as head of the Church. The Church was now Protestant. Edward VI was raised a Protestant. He closed all Catholic churches. Mary I was a strong Catholic. She had been raised in Spain because of her Spanish mother, Catherine of Argon. She shut down the Protestant churches and burnt about 300 people for being Protestant. Those people were later called martyrs. Elizabeth was Protestant. When she became queen, the Anglican Church was started. Since then, religion in England has been much calmer.
This is a list of the rulers of the Tudor dynasty:

</doc>
<doc id="20782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20782" title="Elizabeth Blackwell">
Elizabeth Blackwell

Elizabeth Blackwell (3 February 1821-1910) was the first female doctor in the United Stated and in Europe
She was born in Bristol, England, on 3 February 1821. When she was young, her family moved to America. At first, she was a teacher. She became a doctor in 1849. She founded her own hospital in New York. In 1874 she started a medical school for women in London with Sophie Jex-Blake and promoted women's rights.
She never married and opposed slavery.
In 2013 the University of Bristol launched the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research.
Elizabeth Blackwell lost sight in one eye in 1851.
Blackwell wrote many books including Medicine as a Profession for Women and Address on the Medical Education for women. 

</doc>
<doc id="20784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20784" title="Doom">
Doom

Doom is a first-person shooter video game made by id Software in 1993. It is one of the first games to use three-dimensional levels. The game is about killing demons and zombies. "Doom" has traps, including crushing ceilings, radiation pools, and exploding barrels, that can kill the player. "Doom" was also the first game with multiplayer deathmatch. This means you can fight with other players instead of the demons and zombies. The game was made with a computer language called C using some new techniques John Carmack created.
It has three sequels: "Doom 2" that came out in 1994, "Final Doom" that came out in 1996, and "Doom 3" that came out in 2004.
"Doom" is split into three basic components, the engine, the Iwad file, and the optional Pwad file. The engine contains the code needed to run the game on a computer. The Iwad file contains the default levels, sounds, pictures, and other components. Pwad files contain custom levels. The source code to the "Doom" engine was released in 1997 and can be downloaded for free. The full 3-episode and 4-episode Iwad files have not been released for free and must still be purchased.
"Doom" is a shareware game of three episodes, each having eight standard levels and one secret level. The secret level in each episode is accessed by finding a secret exit in one of the normal levels. The episodes are "Knee-Deep In The Dead", "The Shores Of Hell" and "Inferno". In the shareware version the only episode that can be played is "Knee-Deep In The Dead". The expansion pack of "Doom" is "Ultimate Doom", which has the fourth episode, "Thy Flesh Consumed".

</doc>
<doc id="20785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20785" title="The Jam">
The Jam

The Jam was an English rock band formed in Woking, Surrey in 1972. The members were Paul Weller (guitar, vocals), Bruce Foxton (bass guitar, vocals), and Rick Buckler (drums). Having come out of from the short Punk movement they went on to become one of the UK's top bands. They had four number one hits which were Going Underground, Start!, Town Called Malice and Beat Surrender.
The Jam disbanded in 1982. Lead singer Paul Weller went on to have hits with The Style Council during the remainder of the 1980s. During the 1990s he had a successful solo career.

</doc>
<doc id="20794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20794" title="Alchemy">
Alchemy

Alchemy is the very old study and philosophy of how to change basic substances (such as metals) into other substances. It also studied how substances (and how they are changed into other substances) were related to magic and astrology. People who studied alchemy were called "alchemists". Some things alchemists tried to do were change lead or mercury into gold, make the philosopher's stone, and make the "elixir of life," which they thought could cure (make better) any disease and make someone young again.
Alchemists believed that substances, mind, philosophies, religion, magic and astrology were related to each other. They tried to find connections between them. They tried to understand one by understanding the other. Some alchemists used metals (like gold or silver) to represent spiritual or occult ideas. People in many different countries studied alchemy.
In the 1600s and 1700s, people started to study only the properties of substances without trying to relate them to secret, old knowledge. They did experiments and wrote down what they discovered so other people could learn from them. One of the important people who did these experiments was Robert Boyle. People called the new study of substances chemistry.
Scientists have since discovered how to change one kind of element (the simplest kind of chemical substance) into another. In 1980, an American scientist named Glenn Seaborg discovered how to change a very tiny amount of bismuth into gold with a nuclear reactor. Making gold this way is much more difficult and expensive (costs a lot of money) than mining or recycling it.

</doc>
<doc id="20797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20797" title="Goldfinger">
Goldfinger

Goldfinger (also known as "Ian Fleming's Goldfinger") is a 1959 novel. It is the seventh James Bond book written by Ian Fleming. "Goldfinger" is the third James Bond movie in the series. It is also third to star Sean Connery as the British Secret Service agent James Bond.
In this movie, the main bad guy is named Auric Goldfinger, and he likes gold a lot. In the movie, James Bond tries to find out what Goldfinger's bad plan is, and in the end James Bond wins and stops Goldfinger. His plan is to blow up Fort Knox so that the price of gold will go up. Goldfinger has a sidekick called Oddjob who throws his metal hat at people.
It is noted for the character with the unusual name "Pussy Galore", played in the movie by Honor Blackman.

</doc>
<doc id="20799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20799" title="Scar">
Scar

A scar is the natural result of a healing process in the human body. When the dermis is hurt by a wound, the wounded tissue will be replaced by scar tissue. Scar tissue is not identical to the tissue it replaces. A scar will look different (and have different characteristics) than the surrounding tissue.

</doc>
<doc id="20800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20800" title="Warcraft">
Warcraft

Warcraft is a series of computer games made by Blizzard Entertainment. The games in this series are real-time strategy games, where players play as their characters and gain experience to level up.
The different games from the series are ', ' (with an expansion pack) and "Warcraft 3" and its expansion pack, "The Frozen Throne". The most successful game of the series is "The Frozen Throne" expansion pack, which sold more than 12 million copies. The MMORPG "World of Warcraft" is based on these games. Blizzard Entertainment also created "World of Warcraft", which was published by Vivendi Games.

</doc>
<doc id="20808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20808" title="Deutsches Institut für Normung">
Deutsches Institut für Normung

DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V. (DIN German Institute for Standardization) is the German national organization for standardization. 
It publishes on average 2,000 standards per year in almost all fields of technology and increasingly in non-technical fields (e.g. services).

</doc>
<doc id="20809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20809" title="Paper size">
Paper size

Paper comes in different sizes. There are names for the different sizes of paper. In different parts of the world, different sizes and names are used.
There are also envelope sizes made to fit different kinds of paper.
In the United States and Canada the normal size of paper is called letter size, or sometimes US letter. It is 8½ inches wide and 11 inches long.
The other common size of paper in the US is called legal, or sometimes US legal. It is also 8½ inches wide, but it is 14 inches long. It is similar to the size called foolscap in Britain.
Another size is called executive. It is 7¼ inches wide by 10½ inches long. It is not very common. It is sometimes used for writing personal letters to people.
There is also a size called tabloid. It is 11 inches wide, and 17 inches long. That is the same size as two pieces of letter size put next to each other.
There are also many other paper sizes used for writing notes, for big posters, for books, and for other things.
In Europe and other places an international system of paper sizes is used. The normal size of paper is called A4. It is measured in metric. It is 210 millimeters wide and 297 millimeters long. This is about the size of US letter, but it is a little narrower, and a little longer.
The other common size of paper in Europe is called B5. It is 176 millimeters wide by 250 millimeters long. This is about the same as executive size in the United States. It is sometimes used for writing personal letters to people.
There are also many other paper sizes used for writing notes, for big posters, for books, and for other things.
In the international paper size system, the sizes are based on mathematical formulas. A0 is the biggest at 1 square metre. A1 is half as big as A0. A2 is half as big as A1, and so on. The sizes with "B" and "C" in their name are in between the "A" sizes.
Most printers used with computers are designed to fit US letter and A4, and smaller paper sizes. Sometimes they can fit US legal also. For larger paper sizes, printers at professional printing businesses may be needed.
Here are charts showing all the different sizes of paper that are usually made. If a company wants to make something with a different size of paper than these, they have to have it specially cut for them.

</doc>
<doc id="20813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20813" title="Envelope">
Envelope

An envelope is a form of packing. Envelopes are used for sending letters or documents using regular postal mail. Envelopes are usually made of paper or hardened paper.
An envelope may be small enough to make you need to fold the paper going into it, or it can be as large as the paper so that you do not need to fold it. A large envelope is called a "manila envelope", usually colored a color in between yellow and orange, and is used to send several pages of papers when a regular envelope would be too small. Another reason a manila envelope would be used would be to send important papers (e.g. birth certificates) that are better left unfolded.
To pay to send the mail, a stamp is usually attached to the envelope.

</doc>
<doc id="20815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20815" title="Francis Hutcheson">
Francis Hutcheson

Francis Hutcheson (born August 8, 1694, died August 8, 1746) was an Irish philosopher and one of the founding fathers of the Scottish Enlightenment.

</doc>
<doc id="20817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20817" title="Yasser Arafat">
Yasser Arafat

Yasser Arafat (24 August 1929 – 11 November 2004) is best known as the first leader of the Palestinian people. He was Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) from 1969 to 2004. In 1993 he also became president of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA).
Arafat was born in Jerusalem, Gaza or Cairo.
In 1994, Yasser Arafat was one of the three recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize. The others were Yitzhak Rabin and Shimon Peres. They got the prize for their peace efforts in the Middle East.
The views of him are somewhat divided. Some people see him as a hero, who fought for the cause of the Palestinian people. Others see him as a terrorist, who promoted the use of violence to reach his goals. Still others think he was a charismatic leader, but he made too many concessions to the Israeli government. 
Yasser died in Paris. The next day he was buried at his compound in due to a hasty funeral in Ramallah on November 12, he was reburied on November 13, around 3:30 am. He was buried in a special casket, with the hope of being reburied in Jerusalem one day when Palestine becomes free and independent with Jerusalem as its capital.

</doc>
<doc id="20818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20818" title="Antidote">
Antidote

An antidote is a chemical or medicine that will reverse the effects of some poisons. An antidote will make some or all of the effects of the poison go away.
Each antidote only works for certain poisons.
Not every poison has an antidote. For example, the poison aconitine has no known antidote. Aconitine is a very poisonous toxin that comes from the "Aconitum" plant. If enough of the poison enters a person's body, the person often dies.
Activated charcoal can be used as an antidote for many poisons, but only poisons that were swallowed. For example, activated charcoal can be used for some drug overdoses, and for some poisonings. The charcoal attaches to the poison and keeps it from being taken into the bloodstream through the stomach.
Activated charcoal will not work for every kind of poison. For example, it will not work for alcohol, strong acids, and products made of petroleum (like paint thinner and fuel oil).
Antivenoms will fight the poisonous effects of bites from venomous animals (animals that make venom), like some snakes and spiders.
To create some antivenoms, a little bit of venom is injected into an animal, like a horse. That animal's immune system will create antibodies which signal other cells in the immune system to destroy the venom. Then, those antibodies can be taken out of the animal's blood to make an antivenom. Then, when that antivenom is given to a person who has been poisoned by that venom, the person's immune system will already "know" to kill the venom.
Sometimes, antidotes are poisons themselves. For example, atropine, which is found in deadly nightshade, is very poisonous. However, because of the way it reacts with the body, atropine is used as an antidote against some insecticides and certain kinds of nerve gas. Atropine is carried on many ambulances because it has other uses. For example, it can help restart a heart that is not beating.
There is a product called DuoDote that combines atropine with a medicine called pralidoxime chloride (also called 2-PAM). Both medicines are antidotes against some insecticides and nerve gases. DuoDote is given by injection (through a needle into the thigh muscle). It comes in an auto-injector, which looks like a large pen. When its safety cap is taken off and the auto-injector is pushed against the thigh, it will automatically send the needle into the thigh and deliver the medicines. DuoDote is not carried on many ambulances, but some special teams that specialize in treating poisons carry them.
There are a few different antidotes to cyanide. Some of them need to be given together in order to work.
Often, the first thing that medical professionals will do for cyanide poisoning is to give amyl nitrate or sodium nitrate. These work by making the cyanide attach (stick) to a chemical called methemoglobulin. When it is stuck to methemoglobulin, cyanide is not as dangerous. However, methemoglobulin will only stick to cyanide for a while. Eventually, it will not stick any more. This is why another medicine is needed.
That medicine is called sodium thiosulfate. This medicine sticks to cyanide, and never un-sticks. It helps make cyanide into another chemical that is not poisonous. This new chemical can easily be removed from the body by the kidneys, through urination.
Some ambulances carry cyanide antidote kits for firefighters who have breathed in too much smoke. (Smoke from a fire has cyanide in it.) These antidote kits are auto-injectors like the DuoDote.
Ethanol - drinking alcohol - can actually be used as an antidote. It works for people who have been poisoned by drinking ethylene glycol. Ethylene glycol is used in antifreeze. Because ethylene glycol tastes very sweet, children and animals sometimes drink a lot of it without realizing that it is poison.
Ethanol also works as an antidote for methanol poisoning. Methanol is sometimes called "wood alcohol." It is also used in antifreeze, fuel, and solvents. People can get methanol poisoning accidentally by getting methanol on their skin or breathing it in. Methanol is also poisonous if it is drunk.
Ethanol works as an antidote for ethylene glycol and methanol by sticking to those poisons. Once the ethanol is stuck onto the poisons, the kidneys urinate out the poisons.
A medicine called fomepizole is also an antidote for ethylene glycol and methanol poisoning. It works the same way as ethanol.
Naloxone is an antidote for overdoses on opiates, like heroin, oxycodone (OxyContin), and other prescribed painkillers. The most common brand name for the naloxone antidote is Narcan.
Opiates cause changes in the body by sticking to special opiate receptors (like landing spots) in the brain. If they are not attached to these receptors, they cannot cause any changes in the body. Naloxone works by pushing the opiates off their landing spots. Narcan sticks to those landing spots instead and keeps opiates from attaching to them.
Naloxone should not be confused with naltrexone, which is a different medicine.
100% (pure) oxygen is an antidote for carbon monoxide poisoning. When pure oxygen is not enough, hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) can also be used.
HBOT is done in a special tube or room that can handle high pressures (called a hyperbaric chamber). 100% pure oxygen is sent into the room for the patient to breathe. However, the air pressure is increased to three times more than the normal air pressure. This helps the lungs get more oxygen than they could if the patient were breathing at normal air pressure. It also makes it easier for the blood to carry more oxygen to the entire body.
Vitamin K is an antidote for warfarin (Coumadin) poisoning. Warfarin is a medicine which makes the blood thinner. It is used to prevent blood clots. However, if a person is given too much warfarin, their blood can get too thin. When the blood is too thin, it cannot clot. This can cause serious bleeding problems. 
The blood needs vitamin K to be able to clot. When a person has warfarin poisoning, giving them vitamin K can make their blood able to clot again.
It takes vitamin K four to six hours to reverse warfarin poisoning. Because of this, if a person with warfarin poisoning is bleeding, doctors may also give fresh frozen plasma. This will work more quickly to make the blood less thin.

</doc>
<doc id="20821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20821" title="Yitzhak Rabin">
Yitzhak Rabin

Yitzhak Rabin (March 1, 1922 – November 4, 1995) was an Israeli politician and general. He was born in Jerusalem. He was the fifth Prime Minister of Israel from 1974 until 1977 and again from 1992 until his assassination in 1995 by Yigal Amir, a right-wing activist who had strongly opposed Rabin's signing of the Oslo Accords and to peace with Palestine. He was the first local-born Prime Minister of Israel, the only Israeli Prime Minister to be killed and the second to die in office (following Levi Eshkol).
In 1994, Yitzhak Rabin was one of the three recipients of the Nobel Peace Prize. The others were Yasser Arafat and Shimon Peres. All three got the prizes for trying to make peace in the Middle East.
He died in Tel Aviv in 1995 after being assassinated. He was buried Helkat Gdolei Ha'uma in Mount Herzl in Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="20823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20823" title="General (disambiguation)">
General (disambiguation)

General is a word with many meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="20825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20825" title="Pleasure">
Pleasure

Pleasure is an emotion. It is the opposite of pain. Humans and many other mammals feel pleasure. People feel pleasure when they do something that is fun or that feels good. 
Pleasure is studied in neuroscience. Neuroscientists have mapped pleasure "hotspots" in the brain. Pleasure is important for a person's mental health and well-being. The loss of pleasure is common in people with mental illnesses like depression, schizophrenia, and addiction.
Pleasure is studied in positive psychology. How much pleasure someone feels changes from person to person. Pleasure depends how special something is. There is no rule that says what pleasure is for every person. 
Sigmund Freud wrote about the "pleasure principle" in the 1920 essay "Beyond the Pleasure Principle". According to Freud, the pleasure principle is what drives people to do things that give them a feeling of immediate gratification.
The ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus said that people feel the most pleasure possible when they have no suffering.
Hedonism is another philosophy that is focused on pleasure. It says that pleasure is good. In Hedonism, people focus on pleasure and avoid pain. 
Utilitarianism is a philosophy that focuses on pleasure. It says that morality requires that people do what has the most utility for the most people. 

</doc>
<doc id="20826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20826" title="After">
After

After might mean"

</doc>
<doc id="20835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20835" title="Kettle">
Kettle

A kettle is a type of pot that is used in a kitchen. It is used to make water hot or to boil water. It comes from the Latin word "catillus" ("deep pan or dish for cooking").
In the past, kettles were made of metal bins like copper. Kettles were put on a rack or a hook above the fire to become hot. Now, metal kettles are put on the stove or rangetop. Sometimes they are made of ceramic or clay. 
Now, some people have electric kettles. These kettles plug into the wall and use electricity to generate heat. They are usually plastic or metal. They heat water faster than kettles on a stove. Kettles are often used to make tea. 
They are more common in the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth than other places like the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="20837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20837" title="Nerve agent">
Nerve agent

Nerve gas or nerve agent is the name of a family of chemical poisons. Usually people call them "nerve agents" (they are not always gases). They work by changing the way the nerves work in the human body. They stop messages from the brain from getting sent to the muscles and organs.
Nerve agents are organic chemicals that have phosphorus in them (organophosphates). Many organophosphates are pesticides, and have the same effects as nerve agents if people are exposed to them. However, these pesticides are not used against people as weapons like nerve agents are.
Since they are chemical weapons, nerve agents are classified as weapons of mass destruction by the United Nations according to UN Resolution 687. Since 1993, making or stockpiling them has been against international law.
Nerve agents have long-lasting effects. People who survive nerve agent poisoning almost always have chronic damage to the brain and nerves. This damage can also cause mental health problems.
Nerve agents work by blocking communication between the brain and the body. Usually, a neurotransmitter (a chemical messenger) called acetylcholine gives the signal for the muscles to tighten up. It also keeps them from relaxing. However, when it is time for the muscles to relax, an enzyme called acetylcholinesterase destroys acetylcholine, and another neurotransmitter tells the muscles to relax.
Nerve agents work by blocking acetylcholinesterase. Too much acetylcholine builds up, because it is not getting destroyed by acetylcholinesterase. The muscles keep getting more and more signals to tighten up. Basically, the brain loses control over the body's muscles. It cannot make the muscles relax. This leads to many of the unique signs and symptoms of nerve agent poisoning.
Acetylcholine also signals the parasympathetic nervous system (PNS) to kick in. Usually, the PNS balances out with the sympathetic nervous system to maintain homeostasis. However, when there is too much acetylcholine, the two systems cannot balance, and the sympathetic nervous system does not work correctly.
Nerve agent poisoning causes a very unique group of signs and symptoms. Some medical providers use the acronym "SLUDGE" to remember them:
<br>
Some medical professionals use a different version of this acronym: "SLUDGE and the Killer B's." "The Killer B's" are three life-threatening symptoms:
As the person gets worse, they will have muscle twitches, then start having seizures and go into status epilepticus. People can die because their brain cannot control their breathing muscles, and they stop breathing.
These nerve gases are called "G series" because they were first created by German scientists. They were all discovered and made before or during World War II.
Nobody agrees on why these nerve gases are called "V series." Different people say the V stands for "Victory," "Venomous" (poisonous), or "Viscous" (thick liquid).
There have been two major international laws that relate to nerve agents:

</doc>
<doc id="20839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20839" title="Herbicide">
Herbicide

A herbicide is a poison that kills plants. There are many kinds of herbicides, from weedkillers for gardens to Agent Orange which was used to destroy forests in the Vietnam War.

</doc>
<doc id="20844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20844" title="Hugh Hefner">
Hugh Hefner

Hugh Marston Hefner (born April 9, 1926) is the founder of "Playboy Magazine" and its Editor-in-Chief. 
Hefner was born to Glenn Hefner, an accountant, and Grace (Swanson) Hefner, a teacher, on April 9, 1926 in Chicago, Illinois. He was raised in Chicago. Hefner served in the US Army (1944 - 1946). He attended the Art Institute of Chicago (1946), the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, earning a BA in Psychology (1949), and Northwestern University, 1949.
He married Mildred Williams (June 25, 1949 - 1959, divorced); Kimberley Conrad (July 1, 1989 - September 2009, divorced); and Crystal Harris (December 31, 2012 - present).
He has several children. With Mildred, he has David Paul (August 30, 1955) and Christie Ann (November 8, 1952). With Kimberley, he has Cooper Bradford (September 4, 1991) and Marston Glenn (April 9, 1990).
Hefner is a distant relative of George W. Bush and John Kerry.
He owns a multi-million mansion called the Playboy Mansion. He was also the executive producer of Roman Polanski's 1971 film version of Macbeth. Hefner has also appeared in cameos of himself in some movies.
When nude photographs of Jayne Mansfield on the set of "Promises! Promises!" were published in the June 1963 issue of "Playboy", Hefner was hauled into Chicago city court on obscenity charges.
In 2013 Hefner announced that his youngest son, Cooper would succeed him and eventually help run the Playboy Empire.
Hefner supports legalizing same-sex marriage and he states that a fight for gay marriage is "a fight for all our rights. Without it, we will turn back the sexual revolution and return to an earlier, puritanical time."
Hefner owns a burial plot next to Marilyn Monroe's grave in Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="20846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20846" title="Urination">
Urination

Urination is how animals and humans remove urine from their bodies. Urine is the scientific term for "pee", the liquid bodily waste filtered out of the bloodstream and from the liquids that a person drinks.

</doc>
<doc id="20850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20850" title="Nyctalopia">
Nyctalopia

Nyctalopia (Greek for Night blindness) is a disease of the human eyes.The eyes of people who are night-blind cannot adapt to situations where there is relatively little light; as a result, they have trouble seeing in such situations. 
There are a number of conditions that can cause this; most commonly:

</doc>
<doc id="20852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20852" title="Martinique">
Martinique

Martinique is an island in the Caribbean Sea, and is an overseas region of France. It has an area of 1,128 km². Nearly 400,000 people live there.
The capital city is Fort-de-France. Other towns include Sainte-Anne and St. Pierre (which was destroyed by a volcano named Mont Pelée in 1902).
Martinique is well known for its zouk music. Artists such as Kassav have made it famous over the years.
The ethnic makeup of the country is: 90% African and Mixed African with anything from Chinese, East Indian or White. and 10% White, Amerindian, Chinese and East Indian.

</doc>
<doc id="20854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20854" title="PHP">
PHP

PHP (PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is a scripting language that helps people make web pages more interactive, by allowing them to do more things. 
A website programmed with PHP can have pages that are password protected. A website with no programming cannot do this without other complex things. Standard PHP file extensions are: .php .php3 or .phtml, although a web server can be set up to use any extension.
Its structure was influenced by many languages like C, Perl, Java, C++, and even Python. It is considered to be free software by the Free Software Foundation.
Wikipedia, which runs on MediaWiki, uses the PHP scripting language.
PHP was first created by a man called Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995. It is now developed and improved by a large team of people.
An example Hello World program:
<?php
echo "Hello, World!";
It is common to put PHP code inside a HTML document, for example:
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
</html>

</doc>
<doc id="20858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20858" title="Hello world program">
Hello world program

A Hello world program is usually a program made by computer programmers that are new to a programming language, or to test if the compiler for this language is working correctly. It will simply put the text Hello, World! on the screen. This program is available in all programming languages.
One way to do the Hello World program is shown below, in the C programming language.
int main(int argc, char* argv[])
And on Pascal programming language
program helloworld;
begin
end.

</doc>
<doc id="20861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20861" title="1720s">
1720s


</doc>
<doc id="20864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20864" title="2030s">
2030s

This decade will be called "the twenty-thirties". The Roman number will be MMXXX.

</doc>
<doc id="20867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20867" title="DarkBASIC">
DarkBASIC

DarkBASIC is a programming language that is very easy to create games in so people do not need to worry about DirectX. People now use the more powerful DarkBASIC Professional.
 print "Hello, World!"

</doc>
<doc id="20870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20870" title="XML">
XML

The Extensible Markup Language (short XML) is a computer language. It is a markup language like HTML but is extensible. It's created by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). XML defines rules for the construction of a document. XML adds context to the information in a document. It does not say how this should be displayed.
Some programs get information out of an XML-document. To do that, they need an API. There are many APIs for XML.
You can write a description of an XML document in a way that is useful for programmers. There are several languages for this; the best known is called DTD.
The following languages are based on XML.
There are a lot more languages that use XML. A couple of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="20871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20871" title="JavaScript">
JavaScript

JavaScript is a scripting language for computers. It is often run in web browser applications to create dynamic content like a popup message or a live clock. It is not related to the programming language Java.
This script writes "Example" on the screen. The lines that start with codice_1 are comments; they show what the code does.
The JavaScript is enclosed by codice_2 tags, to tell that it is a script and not text to be put onto the web page the JavaScript is running on.
This script inserts the numbers 1 through 10 at the bottom of a webpage:
The codice_3 loop makes whatever code is between the codice_4 and the codice_5 happen more than one time. In this case, it keeps looping until codice_6 is equal to 10, then it stops.

</doc>
<doc id="20877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20877" title="Category:1003">
Category:1003


</doc>
<doc id="20878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20878" title="Category:1005">
Category:1005


</doc>
<doc id="20879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20879" title="Category:1012">
Category:1012


</doc>
<doc id="20880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20880" title="Category:1052">
Category:1052


</doc>
<doc id="20881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20881" title="World Money Fair">
World Money Fair

The World Money Fair is an international bourse of coins. A "bourse" is where dealers, collectors and the public to buy, sell and trade coins. 
In 1970 A. M Beck founded in Muinch the "Organisation of European Coins-Bourses", "Organisation Europäischer Münzen-Börsen" (OEMB) in German. He had the idea to build up a stronger market for the collecting of coins.
Two years later the organisation organized in Basel the 1st international bourse of coins. During the time it was developed to the "World Money Fair". Today more than 40 nations are members of this organisation. In 2006, the bourse is at the 1st time in Berlin. At the start the German Secretary of State Karl Diller presented the new German 2 Euro Coin. It shows the Holstentor of Lübeck.

</doc>
<doc id="20882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20882" title="Category:1071">
Category:1071


</doc>
<doc id="20883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20883" title="Category:1082">
Category:1082


</doc>
<doc id="20884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20884" title="Category:1098">
Category:1098


</doc>
<doc id="20885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20885" title="Category:1096">
Category:1096


</doc>
<doc id="20886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20886" title="Category:1095">
Category:1095


</doc>
<doc id="20887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20887" title="Category:1128">
Category:1128


</doc>
<doc id="20888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20888" title="Category:1129">
Category:1129


</doc>
<doc id="20889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20889" title="Category:1160">
Category:1160


</doc>
<doc id="20890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20890" title="Category:1162">
Category:1162


</doc>
<doc id="20891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20891" title="Category:1164">
Category:1164


</doc>
<doc id="20892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20892" title="Category:1169">
Category:1169


</doc>
<doc id="20893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20893" title="Category:1196">
Category:1196


</doc>
<doc id="20894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20894" title="Category:1206">
Category:1206


</doc>
<doc id="20895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20895" title="Category:1225">
Category:1225


</doc>
<doc id="20897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20897" title="Category:Articles to be updated">
Category:Articles to be updated

Articles in this category need the information in them to be updated, do what you can! Add items to this category by adding to the top of the article, or by adding the to information that will change after a certain date.

</doc>
<doc id="20899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20899" title="Category:1233">
Category:1233


</doc>
<doc id="20900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20900" title="Category:1243">
Category:1243


</doc>
<doc id="20901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20901" title="Category:1245">
Category:1245


</doc>
<doc id="20902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20902" title="Category:1278">
Category:1278


</doc>
<doc id="20903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20903" title="Category:1286">
Category:1286


</doc>
<doc id="20904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20904" title="Category:1270s">
Category:1270s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1270s which begins in the year 1270 and ends in the year 1279.

</doc>
<doc id="20905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20905" title="Category:1316">
Category:1316


</doc>
<doc id="20906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20906" title="Category:1340">
Category:1340


</doc>
<doc id="20907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20907" title="Category:1354">
Category:1354


</doc>
<doc id="20908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20908" title="Category:1451">
Category:1451


</doc>
<doc id="20909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20909" title="Category:146">
Category:146


</doc>
<doc id="20910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20910" title="Category:140s">
Category:140s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 140s which begins in the year 140 and ends in the year 149.

</doc>
<doc id="20911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20911" title="Category:1476">
Category:1476


</doc>
<doc id="20912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20912" title="Category:1489">
Category:1489


</doc>
<doc id="20913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20913" title="Category:1498">
Category:1498


</doc>
<doc id="20914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20914" title="Category:1500">
Category:1500


</doc>
<doc id="20915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20915" title="Category:1513">
Category:1513


</doc>
<doc id="20916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20916" title="Category:1532">
Category:1532


</doc>
<doc id="20917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20917" title="Category:1541">
Category:1541


</doc>
<doc id="20918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20918" title="Category:1543">
Category:1543


</doc>
<doc id="20919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20919" title="Category:1561">
Category:1561


</doc>
<doc id="20920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20920" title="Category:1579">
Category:1579


</doc>
<doc id="20921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20921" title="Category:1583">
Category:1583


</doc>
<doc id="20922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20922" title="Category:1588">
Category:1588


</doc>
<doc id="20923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20923" title="Category:1588 births">
Category:1588 births


</doc>
<doc id="20924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20924" title="Category:1580s births">
Category:1580s births


</doc>
<doc id="20925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20925" title="Category:1601">
Category:1601


</doc>
<doc id="20926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20926" title="Category:1614">
Category:1614


</doc>
<doc id="20927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20927" title="Category:1636">
Category:1636


</doc>
<doc id="20928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20928" title="Category:1635 births">
Category:1635 births


</doc>
<doc id="20929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20929" title="Category:1632 births">
Category:1632 births


</doc>
<doc id="20930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20930" title="Category:1635">
Category:1635


</doc>
<doc id="20931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20931" title="Category:1623 births">
Category:1623 births


</doc>
<doc id="20932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20932" title="Category:1620s births">
Category:1620s births


</doc>
<doc id="20935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20935" title="Category:1637">
Category:1637


</doc>
<doc id="20936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20936" title="Category:1639">
Category:1639


</doc>
<doc id="20937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20937" title="Category:1661">
Category:1661


</doc>
<doc id="20938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20938" title="Category:1682">
Category:1682

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year .

</doc>
<doc id="20939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20939" title="Category:1662 deaths">
Category:1662 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20940" title="Category:1679 deaths">
Category:1679 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20941" title="Category:1679">
Category:1679


</doc>
<doc id="20942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20942" title="Category:1662">
Category:1662


</doc>
<doc id="20943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20943" title="Category:1688">
Category:1688

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the year .

</doc>
<doc id="20944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20944" title="Category:1704">
Category:1704


</doc>
<doc id="20945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20945" title="Category:1707">
Category:1707


</doc>
<doc id="20946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20946" title="Category:1706 births">
Category:1706 births


</doc>
<doc id="20947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20947" title="Category:1703 deaths">
Category:1703 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20948" title="Category:1704 deaths">
Category:1704 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="20949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20949" title="Category:1700s deaths">
Category:1700s deaths

Note that the year 1700 is actually the last year in the 17th century; 1701 is the first year in the 18th century.

</doc>
<doc id="20950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20950" title="Category:1714">
Category:1714


</doc>
<doc id="20951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20951" title="Autocracy">
Autocracy

Autocracy is a form of government. In an autocracy, a single person has all legal and political power, and makes all decisions by himself or herself. The person who holds the power is called an autocrat.
When there is a monarch ruling a country as an absolute monarchy, this is also called an autocracy. Having an autocratic government does not mean the country is governed well or governed poorly. It is just a description on how it is set up. 
In modern times, most autocrats gain power as part of a larger nationalist, communist, or fascist movement. Once in power, they eliminate all other kinds of authority in the country, such as judges, the legislature, and political parties. 

</doc>
<doc id="20953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20953" title="Oligarchy">
Oligarchy

Oligarchy is a form of government. In an oligarchic system, all the power is held by a small group of people. It is usually to the most powerful people who govern the state. It was used in Sparta, where the kingship alternated between three leading families.
An oligarchy where "the best" rule is called "Aristocracy".
If the richest people rule the country, this is called "Plutocracy".

</doc>
<doc id="20959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20959" title="Punctuation">
Punctuation

"Punctuation is the name for marks used in writing. They are to help understanding and correct reading. These are some common punctuation marks used in English:
The use of punctuation in English can change from place to place and from time to time. Modern typography suggests that punctuation should only be used when there is a need. That results in less punctuation than was the case the early 20th century.
The use of these marks is often decided by a group or organization and then written down as a style guide. Newspapers have a style guide to make their content use the same rules (consistency).
In the second example, no style guide will help. The writer just has to make sure that the sentence is understood as it is written. Punctuation is there to help the reader make sense of what is written. Often it is best to change the sentence so that the meaning does not rest on a comma.
That seems to make the meanings clear.
A period (U.S.A.), full stop (U.K. and Commonwealth) or full point (typography and printing), looks like this: .
A period or stop is used to end a sentence. The period plus a space separates sentences in prose, and makes it easier to read. If they are not needed, they should not be used. So, for example, in a list format it is obvious when a section ends, therefore it does not need a full stop.
A period can show numbers that are smaller than one. With money, a period is used to show the amount of money less than one dollar.
A period is sometimes used to show that a word has been made shorter. A word that is made shorter with a period is called an abbreviation.
A comma looks like this: ,
A comma has many uses. Some of these are shown below:
A question mark looks like this: ?
Question marks are used when writing a question, to make an inquiry, or to ask something.
An exclamation mark looks like this: !
An exclamation mark is used to write about a strong emotion, or to write the words a person shouted. It can be used to make a statement stronger or more forceful.
An exclamation mark can be used with a question mark, to make a question more forceful.
An apostrophe looks like this: '
An apostrophe has two main uses:
An apostrophe can be used to show that something belongs to something else.
If there is only one thing, the letter "s" is used after an apostrophe to show ownership.
Sometimes the letter "s" is not used after an apostrophe to show ownership. A word will end with just an apostrophe if there is more than one thing and the word already ends with an "s".
An apostrophe can be used to put two small words together. Two small words that are put together with an apostrophe to make one word are called contractions. This is normal in writing about a person speaking. Spoken English often uses contractions because these words are easier to say.
Pronouns do not use an apostrophe to show that something belongs to something else. Among these are "its", "his", "hers", "theirs".
Plurals (words referring to more than one thing) do not need an apostrophe.
Quotation marks (also called quote marks or quotes for short) are used around the words that people have said, or direct speech. They are used in pairs.
When quotation marks sit next to periods and commas, there are two styles of punctuation. These two styles are most commonly referred to as "American" and "British"; the British one is also called "logical quotation". 
Both systems have the same rules regarding question marks, exclamation points, colons, and semicolons. But they differ in how they treat full stops and commas.
In all major forms of English, question marks, exclamation marks, semicolons, and any other punctuation are placed inside or outside the closing quotation mark depending on whether they are part of the quoted material.
The style in the United Kingdom and other non-American places is called British style, 
logical quotation, 
or logical punctuation. it includes inside quotation marks only those punctuation marks which appeared in the "original" quoted material. Otherwise it places punctuation outside the closing quotation marks. Fowler's "A Dictionary of Modern English Usage" provides an early example of the rule: "All signs of punctuation used with words in quotation marks must be placed "according to the sense"."
When dealing with words-as-words, short-form works and sentence fragments, this style places periods and commas outside the quotation marks:
With direct speech, British placing depends on whether or not the quoted statement is complete or a fragment. According to the British style guide "Butcher's Copy-editing", American style should be used when writing fiction. In non-fiction, some British publishers may permit placing punctuation that is not part of the person's speech inside the quotation marks but prefer that it be placed outside. Periods and commas that "are" part of the person's speech are permitted inside the quotation marks regardless of whether the material is fiction.
In the United States, the prevailing style is called American style, whereby commas and periods are almost always placed inside closing quotation marks. This style of punctuation is common in the U.S. and to a lesser extent, Canada as well., and is the style usually recommended by "The Chicago Manual of Style" and most other American style guides. 
When dealing with words-as-words, short-form works and sentence fragments, standard American style places periods and commas inside the quotation marks:
This style also places periods and commas inside the quotation marks when dealing with direct speech, regardless of whether the work is fiction or non-fiction:
In both major styles, regardless of placement, only one end mark (?, !, or .) can end a sentence. Only the period, however, "may not" end a quoted sentence when it does not also end the enclosing sentence, except for literal text:
This is a colon: :
Colons can be used at the beginning of a list. "This is a list of animals: birds, cats, insects, pigs, and sheep.".
Colons can be used to replace a semicolon in between two parts of a sentence, but this is not common today.
Standard English usage is to have no spaces before, and one space after a colon.
A semicolon looks like this: ;
A semicolon has only two uses. First, to connect two independent clauses into a single sentence. For example:
"I could tell that it was getting late; it was growing darker by the second."
The second use of a semicolon is to separate items in a series when the items contain parenthetical elements within themselves. For example:
"The following crewmembers were on the bridge: James T. Kirk, captain of the
Enterprise; Mr. Spock, first science officer; Mr. Sulu, helmsman; Mr. Scott,
engineer; and Dr. McCoy, chief medical officer.
A semicolon is also used with a conjunctive adverb when joining two clauses. In reality, this is the same as the first rule, but it looks different enough to sometimes cause concern.
For example:
"The environment is the context in which all life exists; consequently, it is more than a political issue."
An ellipsis is a mark that looks like this: ...
It is used to show where words have been missed out when writing what a person said. It can also be used to show that there is more to be said but the person stopped at that point.
A hyphen looks like this: -. Hyphens have many uses in writing:

</doc>
<doc id="20961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20961" title="Land">
Land

Most of the Earth's surface is covered with water. The roughly 22 percent that is not, is called land (as opposed to water). Land can have different types of soil. It may be covered with stones, sand, dirt, etc. Sometimes it is not clear where land ends and a body of water begins.
A land can also mean some territory, forming part of a country.

</doc>
<doc id="20962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20962" title="Surface">
Surface

A surface is the outer part of something. Most surfaces have a width and a length, but no depth. 
Surfaces are studied in geometry. 

</doc>
<doc id="20963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20963" title="Sexual slavery">
Sexual slavery

Sexual slavery is a special case of slavery or forced labour. Sexual slaves are like normal slaves, except for the following:
This term is also used by the Vienna Declaration for the women's rights and by the name of humanitarian international law.

</doc>
<doc id="20964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20964" title="List of Internet top-level domains">
List of Internet top-level domains

Here is a list of currently existing top-level domains (TLDs).

</doc>
<doc id="20965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20965" title="1784">
1784


</doc>
<doc id="20967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20967" title="List of Atlantic hurricane seasons">
List of Atlantic hurricane seasons

The following is a list of Atlantic hurricane seasons. All began on June 1 in their respective years. They ended on November 30. These dates are when tropical cyclones usually form in the Atlantic Ocean.
The Atlantic hurricane season is the time of year that hurricanes form in the northern Atlantic Ocean. The season starts on June 1 and ends November 30. There is an average of ten tropical storms, six hurricanes, and two or three major hurricanes in the Atlantic.
The National Hurricane Center helps watch for hurricanes in the northern Atlantic and makes forecasts about were the storms will go.
1800–1809 
1810–1819 
1820–1829 
1830–1839 
1840–1849 
1850–1859 
1860–1869 
1870 
1871–1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908 
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013

</doc>
<doc id="20969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20969" title="List of Pacific hurricane seasons">
List of Pacific hurricane seasons

The following is a list of Pacific hurricane seasons. They all began on May 15 in the eastern Pacific and June 1 in the central Pacific in their respective years. There, they end on November 30. These dates are when tropical cyclones usually form in the eastern Pacific Ocean.
Before the satellite age started in the 1960s, data on east Pacific hurricanes is extremely unreliable. Most east Pacific storms are of no threat to land.
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012

</doc>
<doc id="20977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20977" title="1963 Atlantic hurricane season">
1963 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1963 Atlantic hurricane season started on June 1, 1963, and ended in November 30, 1963.
The most famous hurricane of the season was Hurricane Flora. It was one of the most deadly. It killed 7,200 people as in Haiti and Cuba.
A group of clouds in the central Atlantic became a tropical storm on July 31. It went to the west and it became a hurricane on August 2. The hurricane quickly became a category 2 hurricane with 100 mph (160 km/h) winds. Arlene got to Bermuda on August 9. Afterwards it got wind speeds of 100 mph (160 km/h) again that night. It got weaker until it left the tropics on August 11. No one died from it.
Before Hurricane Beulah there was a tropical wave moving in the tropical Atlantic. It was put together enough to be called a tropical depression on August 20, and it became strong enough to be called a tropical storm the next day. Beulah moved to the northwest, becoming a hurricane on the 22nd and a big hurricane on the 24th. The hurricane moved to the north.
A weak storm north of Puerto Rico moved northeast. It became a tropical depression on September 10. It became a tropical storm on the 11th. This small storm had 60 mph (100 km/h) winds on the 12th. That was the fastest the winds would become. 
Over the Gulf of Mexico Cindy turned into a tropical storm on September 16. Cindy turned into a hurricane the next day. It did not become any stronger before it got to High Island, Texas. Cindy brought a lot of rain to southeast Texas as it moved to the southwest over the state. The hurricane weakened on the 20th, after causing $12.5 million (1963 dollars) in damage. It killed three people.
On September 19, a tropical wave became a tropical depression in the Atlantic Ocean. It turned into a tropical storm on the 21st. It did not hit the islands as it moved north. Debra became a hurricane later on the 21st.
The Intertropical Convergence Zone developed a tropical depression on September 23, east of the Lesser Antilles. It moved west and it became a hurricane on the 24th. It went through the Windward Islands on the 25th as a hurricane with 95 mph (140 km/h) winds. Upper level winds made it stay as a minimal hurricane before it got to Dominican Republic on the 27th. The island killed the hurricane. Edith was gone by the 29th. Edith killed ten people in Martinique, injured 50 people across the Caribbean, and caused $47 million in damage. It was unlucky that Hurricane Flora came just days later.
Hurricane Flora was the deadliest hurricane of the season. It killed over 7,000 people and created hundreds of millions of dollars in damage.
Ginny was strange. It is one of the most recent hurricanes to make landfall near New England. It made 18 inches (50 cm) of snow over Maine. The hurricane killed 7 people and created $300,000 in damage (1963 dollars).
Tropical Storm Helena formed on October 25. It reached its maximum of 50 mph (80 km/h) before it hit the Lesser Antilles. Helena's strength changed a lot for the next 3 days. Though it was weak, Helena was able to kill 5 people and create $500,000 in damage.
The following names were used for tropical storms and hurricanes that formed in Atlantic in 1963. Names that were not used are marked in gray.
The name Flora was never used again.

</doc>
<doc id="20978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20978" title="Sildenafil">
Sildenafil

Sildenafil is a medication that is also called Viagra, Revatio and (in the Indian subcontinent) Caverta. 
Sildenafil makes the blood vessels become wider. This lowers the blood pressure. Sildenafil mostly works in the penis and in the lungs. This medicine increases blood flow to the penis. This helps the penis become erect during sexual intercourse. Sildenafil also helps pulmonary hypertension. Because this medicine makes the blood vessels wider, it makes it easier for blood to flow. Sildenafil was patented in 1996 and first made to sell in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="20979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20979" title="1825">
1825


</doc>
<doc id="20980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20980" title="1771">
1771


</doc>
<doc id="20981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20981" title="1777">
1777


</doc>
<doc id="20982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20982" title="1757">
1757


</doc>
<doc id="20983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20983" title="4 BC">
4 BC

Year 4 BC was a common year starting on Tuesday or Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sabinus and Rufus.

</doc>
<doc id="20984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20984" title="Sylvester McCoy">
Sylvester McCoy

Percy James Patrick Kent-Smith or Sylvester McCoy (born August 20 1943) is a Scottish actor. He is best known for playing the seventh incarnation of the Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1987–1989, he also briefly played the Doctor in beginning of the 1996 TV movie.

</doc>
<doc id="20985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20985" title="Paul McGann">
Paul McGann

Paul McGann (born November 14 1959) is an English actor. He is best known for his roles in "Withnail and I" (1987) and as the Eighth Doctor in the 1996 "Doctor Who" television movie.

</doc>
<doc id="20987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20987" title="Georgia O'Keeffe">
Georgia O'Keeffe

Georgia O’Keeffe (November 15 1887 – March 6 1986) was an American artist. She was born near Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, U.S. O'Keeffe studied art at the Art Institute of Chicago, Art Students' League, University of Virginia, Charlottesville and Teachers College.
She is mainly known for her modernist paintings. These paintings use both "abstract" and "concrete" elements.
Georgia O'Keeffe married Alfred Stieglitz in 1924. Stieglitz was a famous photographer and he helped O'Keeffe gain success in her career. He owned the first studio her art was displayed in. Georgia and Alfred evidently wrote over 25,000 love letters to each other.
O'Keefe holds the world auction record for a painting by a woman (November 2014). Her "Jimson Weed/White Flower No 1" sold for $44.4m (£28.8m) at the O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, New Mexico, which has many of the artist's works. O'Keeffe's large-format depictions of flowers which she painted as if they had been seen in close-up. Sotheby's in New York said the $15m (£9.5m) estimate on O'Keeffe's work was shattered by intense bidding between two rivals.

</doc>
<doc id="20988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20988" title="Genesis (band)">
Genesis (band)

Genesis is an English progressive rock group. They formed in 1967. They have sold about 150 million albums all over the world. This puts them among the top 30 best-selling recording artists of all time. The group's members have included Peter Gabriel and Phil Collins. Both of them were successful as solo artists as well.
Over the years, Genesis has changed members more than once. The first line-up was Peter Gabriel (vocals), Anthony Phillips (guitar), Tony Banks (keyboards), Mike Rutherford (bass & guitar), and Chris Stewart (drums).
Other drummers until 1970 were John Silver and John Mayhew. In August 1970, Phil Collins began playing drums for Genesis. In some songs, he also sang. The same year Phillips left, and Steve Hackett joined as a guitarist in 1971.
The band also made a song called "Supper's Ready" which is almost 23 minutes long. Many fans call it their best because it has many different parts.
After the release of the album "The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway" (1974), Gabriel left the band. Collins took over the singing. He was singer for Genesis from 1976 to 1996. When Hackett also left, in 1977 there were only three members left. The 1978 album was called "...And Then There Were Three..." because of this.
The band ended up making lots of well-known songs, like Abacab, Invisible Touch and No Son of Mine.
The last studio album with Collins was "We Can't Dance" in 1991. He left the band in 1996 and was replaced with singer Ray Wilson. Because the album "Calling All Stations" (1997) with Ray Wilson was not very successful, the group disbanded.
After a break of eight years, Genesis started a world tour in 2006. The members now are Phil Collins, Mike Rutherford and Tony Banks. The band disbanded again at 2011 due to Collins retiring and Collins came back from retiring at 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="21011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011" title="Deadly nightshade">
Deadly nightshade

Deadly nightshade or belladonna ("Atropa belladonna") is a well-known, hardy perennial shrub. It is a member of the nightshade family. 
Originally, it grew in Europe, North Africa and Asia. It has also been seen in North America, but is far less common there. Usually it grows in the shade. The plant does not like direct sunlight. Often it grows in places where the soil is rich in limestone. 
Most parts of the plant are known to be very poisonous. Children have died from eating as little as three berries. One leaf contains enough poison to kill an adult. The root usually contains the most poison.
The poison present in the plant is called atropine.
The effects of Atropine are dilated (big) pupils, hallucinations, and difficulty in seeing (the vision may not be as sharp as always, it may be difficult to focus on some object). Problems keeping upright, feeling like one is flying, and being confused are also symptoms.
The pulse of the victim grows faster and faster, and the rate at which the heart is beating will go up. Toxic reaction to atropine causes fever, delirium, stupor and rash on head, neck and upper trunk. There may be agitation, difficulty in speaking and swallowing. Coma and convulsions usually come before death.

</doc>
<doc id="21012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21012" title="Perennial">
Perennial

A perennial is a plant that bears leaves and perhaps flowers every year. Some plants only bear leaves and flowers once, then they die. Such plants are called "annual". Other plants live for two years. They are called "biennial".
Most trees and shrubs are perennial plants.
The word perennial can also refer to a tradition, an event, or a seasonal item that remains popular every year, such as a holiday song.

</doc>
<doc id="21014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21014" title="Shrub">
Shrub

A shrub or bush is a category of plants. A tree usually has one stem, which at some height has branches. A "shrub" can have multiple stems from the bottom up. Usually, bushes do not grow as tall as trees, very often they are less than 10–12 m tall. 
Very many plants can be either shrubs or trees, depending on the growing conditions. Small, low shrubs such as lavender, periwinkle and thyme are often termed subshrubs. Shrubs can be either deciduous or evergreen.
A shrubbery is a garden with shrubs as the main feature.
In botany and ecology a shrub is more specifically used to describe the particular physical structural or plant life-form of woody plants which are less than 8 meters high and usually have many stems arising at or near the base. 
For example, a descriptive system widely used in Australia is based on structural characteristics based on life-form, plus the height and amount of foliage cover of the tallest layer or dominant species.
For shrubs 2–8 m high the following structural forms are categorized:
For shrubs less than 2 m high the following structural forms are categorized:

</doc>
<doc id="21015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21015" title="Evergreen">
Evergreen

An evergreen is a plant which keeps its leaves throughout the year. This contrasts with deciduous plants, which lose their leaves during the winter or dry season. There are many different kinds of evergreen plants, both trees and shrubs.

</doc>
<doc id="21016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21016" title="Deciduous">
Deciduous

Deciduous means "temporary" or "tending to fall off" (deriving from the Latin word "decidere", to fall off).
When talking about plants this means that the plant loses its leaves, usually in autumn. The leaves will then grow again in spring. 
When referring to teeth it means the teeth at the front of the mouth that grow and fall out and are replaced in childhood. They are called .
In botany and horticulture, deciduous plants are trees, shrubs and herbaceous perennials which lose all of their leaves for part of the year. This is called abscission. Leaf loss happens in winter in temperate or polar climates. 
With evergreens, foliage is shed differently from deciduous trees. They seem green year round. Plants that are intermediate may be called semi-deciduous; they lose old foliage as new growth begins. Other plants are semi-evergreen and lose their leaves before the next growing season, keeping some in winter or dry periods. Some trees, including a few species of oak, have desiccated leaves that stay on the tree through winter. These persistent dry leaves are dropped in the spring as new growth begins.
Many deciduous plants flower during the period when they are leafless, as this increases the effectiveness of pollination,Also the absence of leaves improves wind transmission of pollen for wind-pollinated plants and increases the visibility of the flowers to insects in insect-pollinated plants.

</doc>
<doc id="21017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017" title="Shade">
Shade

A place is called in the shade when the sun is shining, and some object, a tree for example, blocks the direct sunlight. So the sunlight can not reach the spot. The dark image, which the object casts on the ground (or on another object) is called shadow, not "shade".
Shade can also mean a darker or lighter color of the same base color. For example: in a picture of a tree's shadow, the grass in the shade will be a darker "shade" of green than the grass out of the shade.

</doc>
<doc id="21018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21018" title="Hallucination">
Hallucination

A hallucination is seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling or feeling things that do not really exist. Usually people have to be awake and conscious to have hallucinations. That way, a person who sees or hears something that is not really there has a hallucination. Hallucinations are different from dreams. When people dream they are not awake. Hallucinations are also different from illusions. Illusions are based on real perceptions, which are distorted or interpreted in a wrong way. 
Certain drugs can cause hallucinations. Some illegal drugs are taken because they cause hallucinations. Certain mental illnesses can also cause hallucinations. In some cases, withdrawal of a drug can also cause hallucinations. This has especially been reported by people trying to stop taking sleeping pills, or by alcoholics. 
People who have hallucinations are not necessarily ill, lack of sleep can also cause hallucinations. Hallucinations just before going to sleep or just after waking up are considered normal. 
Hallucinations can affect all of a person's senses. People with the mental illness of schizophrenia may hear sounds or voices that are not really there. People with certain mental illnesses may also have hallucinations in which they see a person or thing which is not really there. People are less likely to have hallucinations in which they smell or touch something that is not really there. Certain forms of epilepsy can cause hallucinations. Finally, hallucinations can be the result of certain substances taken or of certain physical constellations. Most of the time, these substances are taken to get the hallucinations. Sometimes, (severe) lack of sleep, or high fever can lead to hallucinations brought on by such viruses as the common cold.
Many studies have shown hallucinatory experiences take place across the world. Several studies, one of them done as early as 1894, have reported that approximately 10% of the population experience hallucinations. A recent survey of over 13,000 people reported a much higher figure. According to the study, almost 39% of the people reported hallucinatory experiences. 27% of the people reported daytime hallucinations, mostly outside the context of illness or drug use. From this survey, hallucinations affecting smell or taste seem the most common in the general population.
Some diseases such as brain disorders or infections may cause a person to have hallucinations. As well, an alcoholic (person who is addicted to alcohol) who stops drinking alcohol suddenly may experience a type of hallucinations called delirium tremens (or "DT's"). Some people have hallucinations if they do not sleep for a number of days, or if they do not eat for a number of days.
Some people have hallucinations because they purposefully or accidentally put chemicals or drugs into their bodies.
Some people use illegal drugs that cause vivid hallucinations, such as LSD ("acid") and PCP ("angel dust"). Many kinds of drugs - even legal ones - will cause hallucinations, if very large doses are taken, and it is seen as a side effect.
Some legal drugs that dentists, doctors, or surgeons use cause hallucinations. The dentists, doctors, and surgeons use drugs called anaesthetics to make people not feel pain, or to make people become unconscious. But the drugs also have some other additional effects, which are called side effects, such as nausea (feeling sick) and hallucinations. 
Many dentists use an anaesthetic called nitrous oxide ("laughing gas"). Inhaling large quantities of nitrous oxide can cause people to have hallucinations. Doctors and surgeons use many types of anaesthetic gases so that patients who are being operated become unconscious. When a person inhales anaesthetic gases, they may have hallucinations for several minutes, until they become unconscious.
Some adults accidentally swallow a poisonous chemical because it is in a bottle that has the wrong label. In some cases, children swallow a poisonous chemical because they think that it is a food product or a drink. Some dangerous, poisonous chemicals which can make people very sick or even kill them also cause hallucinations.
Some people have hallucinations when they have not slept for a long time; other people have something resembling a hallucination before falling asleep. This is usually called hypnagogia. Most of the time, the people experiencing this kind of hallucinations are aware of the fact that they are not real.

</doc>
<doc id="21019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21019" title="Shadow">
Shadow

A shadow is a dark area on a bright surface. It is caused by something blocking a source of light. A shadow's outline, called a "silhouette", will have the same shape as the object blocking the light.
Depending on the environment of its passage, the intensity and angle of his fall, its color characteristics, direction and distance from the object and the surface, and the last - of each other, the nature of texture, reflectivity, transparency and shape of them - can change the sharpness and hardness of circuits, the degree of contrast with the surface, the depth and darkness of coloring this silhouette (with barely perceptible, pale gray or dull color - to very dark color, and velvety-black). If there is contact between the object and the surface, the shadow will certainly have a "touch" with him, and in the absence thereof - object casts a shadow on the surface as well as the silhouette figures, repeating its outlines, and meet all of the above conditions, but isolated from it (number of amendments makes no factor of this contact, affecting the uniformity in color and silhouette). The shadow will be completely or partially cover the objects in between it and the objects closest to the radiation source. It occurs on the surface of the object itself - from the light source, and the presence of one such source and opacity, it will be deeper than - the bed to an independent surface, but the dark side of the object can also be obtained from the reflection of the surface or other objects . This empirical determination significantly epistemologically different from the one given to this phenomenon: physics, which operates the concepts of phase states of matter, the wave nature of light and optics - The psychology of color perception and physiology of vision.
The concept of a "shadow" has a lot of allegorical, metaphorical and figurative sense, present in everyday life, literature, art, psychology, and natural sciences. Special attention is paid to this notion in the philosophical systems, the most - in the east, for example, the "shadow" of the ancient Chinese philosophy and art, depending on the context, represent several categories.

</doc>
<doc id="21024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21024" title="1553">
1553


</doc>
<doc id="21025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21025" title="1732">
1732


</doc>
<doc id="21026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21026" title="1768">
1768


</doc>
<doc id="21033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21033" title="The Sims">
The Sims

The Sims is a video game released in 2000 . It is a life simulator that imitates real life. Sims can get jobs, have needs, and can get married. It was the third best selling computer and video game of all time (it mostly sold well on the computer).
The Sims was so successful it has created three sequels, (The Sims 2 in 2004, The Sims 3 in 2009, and The Sims 4 in 2014,) along with many other spin-offs of the series.
The Sims was created by Will Wright, who worked at Maxis, which was owned by EA Games. It was first released in February 2000. His intention was to make an open-ended game without a set objective. This feature was the reason why it attracted so many gamers.
The first part of the game is to make a family, or play one of the preexisting families. Every family can have children and adults. A player can choose what they look like from many different clothes and hair styles. Each family must include at least one adult.
Each family starts with $20,000, irregardless of how many sims are in the family. After the family is made, the player can move them into a lot. Some lots are empty while other lots have houses on them.
There are many different floor coverings, wall coverings and doors to choose from when building a house. After building, the player can purchase objects, such as a refrigerator, bed, or other things.
Players control the Sims in Live Mode. The main goal is to keep the Sim's eight needs up and in the green. These needs eventually go down as time goes by. If Sims have no energy, they will fall to the ground. If they are swimming and run out of energy they will drown. If they are too hungry, they will die of starvation.
Other goals include making money (called Simoleons in this game). Sims must get jobs to get more money so they can pay bills, buy new objects, and expand the house. If they do not go to work two days in a row, they will be fired. Each Sim has eight skill levels to work towards. Each skill level has 10 points. For instance, in the military job, the ultimate requirement is 10 body points. Jobs also require a certain number of friends to receive a promotion. The higher they go, the more money they make per day.
Children must go to school. If they do not keep their grades up, they will be sent to military school and will never return. They can read books to study.
"The Sims" is well known for having many expansion packs, or smaller games that add onto the main game. The player must own the original game to buy and install these packs. The Sims has 7 official expansion packs. 
After it sold well on the computer, it was put on other platforms such as the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable, GameCube and Xbox. The console releases are:
These all follow a different concept. They are more objective-based rather than free-willed and have not been as popular as the original PC editions.

</doc>
<doc id="21038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21038" title="Webcam">
Webcam

A webcam is a video camera that connects to a computer, and can let people see each other over the Internet. Most people that have webcams use them with an instant messenger to see each other at the same time. Webcams can also be used for recording videos and video blogs. The webcam can be part of a computer, mobile phone or it can be an independent device.
The first webcam was developed in 1991 at Cambridge University and the first commercial camera started in 1994 and was made by Logitech.

</doc>
<doc id="21041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21041" title="Y-intercept">
Y-intercept

The y-intercept of a line on a graph is where the line touches (or intercepts) the y-axis (the numbered line going straight up).
The equation for straight lines is formula_1. "formula_2" is the formula_3-intercept.

</doc>
<doc id="21047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21047" title="Wikipedia:Interwiki">
Wikipedia:Interwiki

Interwikis (short for "interwikimedia links") are links between wikis. These normally show links to articles in other languages, but can also be used in the article text to link to other projects, for example, Wiktionary and Wikimedia Commons.
It is important to have interwikis to other languages. They help people to find more information and other Wikipedias. Most articles on the Simple English Wikipedia have articles in the English Wikipedia.
The process for adding interwikis is now organized through Wikidata. This allows you easily link an article to the same article in all the other languages. You can help add interwikis to other languages if they do not already exist. 
At the bottom of the article, type the code for the language followed by the page title in that language in square brackets. For example, in an article on the Internet, a link to the English Wikipedia would look like this:
'en:' is the language code and 'Internet' is the page title. Remember that the title in the link must be the same as the title in the language you are linking to.
You might find a list of links to put on a page at the bottom of the articles on the English Wikipedia. Links to other languages are always in alphabetical order.
When you have completed all that, preview the article: the link should appear in the left-hand toolbar.
Adding a link to your user page at another Wikipedia is the same as creating a link for an article. If your user name on the English Wikipedia is "Example", then you would add at the bottom of your user page. If you also had the same user name on the Japanese Wikipedia, you would add (ja: is the language code for Japanese).
If you are not adding a link to show it up at "In other languages" of the sidebar, please remember to add a colon (:) at the front of the language code. For example, if you are linking to the English Wikipedia's Internet article, use the following code:
First of all, check to see if a template in your article would work for what you want to do.
If not, find where you want the link in the article, and type the code for the project and the page title in that project in square brackets. You could also type text to appear instead of the link. For a link to the main page of the Simple English Wiktionary, you would type:
Simple English Wiktionary
'simple:' tells Wiktionary what language to display itself in. The link looks like this:
Simple English Wiktionary
For projects in the same language, just the project interwiki is needed. For example:
Main Page of Simple English Wiktionary
Wiki look like this:
Main Page of Simple English Wiktionary

</doc>
<doc id="21050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21050" title="The Last Waltz">
The Last Waltz

The Last Waltz was final concert of the Canadian/American rock group The Band. It took place on Thanksgiving (November 26) in 1976 at the Winterland Ballroom in San Francisco, California. It was also made into a movie by Martin Scorsese, that came out in 1978.
Other musicians who were in "The Last Waltz" concert were:

</doc>
<doc id="21053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21053" title="1436">
1436


</doc>
<doc id="21054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21054" title="1241">
1241

1241 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="21055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21055" title="886">
886


</doc>
<doc id="21056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21056" title="1204">
1204

1204 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="21060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21060" title="985">
985


</doc>
<doc id="21061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21061" title="681">
681


</doc>
<doc id="21062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21062" title="1593">
1593


</doc>
<doc id="21063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21063" title="1721">
1721


</doc>
<doc id="21064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21064" title="Vedas">
Vedas

The Vedas are the four holiest books of the Hindu religion. They are believed to be one of the oldest books ever made by mankind. They are written in an earlier Indian language called Sanskrit. They have phrases (called "mantras") which are chanted at the religious ceremonies.
Although they were finally written down around 1,500 BC, they are actually much much older. They were passed down orally from one generation to the next, perhaps over thousands of years. The Vedas have stories about the Hindu gods, instructions for rituals, hymns, poetry, and prayers. The word "Vedic" means something about the Vedas. The language of the Vedas is called "Vedic Sanskrit".
Later types of Hinduism that are very different from the types of Hinduism that follow the Vedas respect them.
The four Vedas are:
Rigveda is the first of the four Vedas. Rigveda means a "Veda of praise". This Veda has several verses (hymns). These hymns praise a number of gods. This Veda is also the oldest Hindu holy book.
Samaveda is the second Veda of the four Vedas. Samaveda means the Veda of sacred songs. This Veda also has many hymns. They were sung by the Hindu priests and other Hindus during religious activities.
Yajurveda is the third of the four Vedas. Yajurveda means the Veda of the Yajus. Yajus were mantras sung during religious activities. Yajurveda is divided into two parts. The name of the first part is Black Yajurveda, called Taittiriya. The name of the second part is White Yajurveda, called Vajasaneyi.
Atharvaveda is the fourth of the four Vedas. Atharvaveda means the "Veda of knowledge".
The Atharvaveda holds key for the massive vedic knowledge on the sciences like medicine, sorcery and has many facts that the present generation is still trying to crack.

</doc>
<doc id="21066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21066" title="Wikipedia:Vandalism">
Wikipedia:Vandalism

On Wikipedia, vandalism is when a user makes changes to pages that make the page incorrect and not make sense. They might do any or all of the things listed below. Vandalism is a very bad problem, and people who keep doing it may be so that they are no longer able to make changes. Test edits, like those made in the are usually not vandalism, but in some cases, it can be, especially if the content is offensive, , or is done over and over again.
There are two Wikipedias in English; the Simple English Wikipedia and the regular English Wikipedia (). Sometimes, vandals from the English Wikipedia will come here to vandalize. Vandalizing from multiple wikis is called cross-wiki vandalism and can lead to all Wikimedia websites.
You can help "fight" vandalism. This means getting rid of bad changes by other users. It's very easy, and you don't even need to ! Here's how:
That's it! If you want to know more about how to help fight vandalism, you can always ask questions at .
Note: Not all of these warning templates are for vandalism.
For repeated vandalism by an anonymous IP addresses, it is helpful to and add codice_1 to the user talk page of the address.
The owners of IP addresses can be found using:
If an address is not in one, it will might be in a different one.
"" is a script that allows autoconfirmed users to and warn vandals.
"Vandal Warner" is a you can use to warn the vandals more easily. In order to use it, you should click on the "" link and go to the "Gadgets" tab. Then you should select "Vandal Warner" and save the settings. Of course, you can use gadgets only when you are logged in.
 has revert script in it that lets you revert to a specific version, to add this:
After that you'll need to flush your old monobook.js from your cache. Pressing Ctrl+F5 on some browsers might work, or Ctrl-R on some others. Then it will work, if not ask for help. There are also other anti vandalism gadgets there besides these.

</doc>
<doc id="21070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21070" title="Category:Songs">
Category:Songs

Category for songs

</doc>
<doc id="21074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21074" title="List of Prime Ministers of Greenland">
List of Prime Ministers of Greenland

List of Prime Ministers of Greenland

</doc>
<doc id="21076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21076" title="Serbia and Montenegro">
Serbia and Montenegro

Serbia and Montenegro (Serbian: Србија и Црна Гора, Srbija i Crna Gora, abbreviated as "SCG") was the name of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. They used to be two separate Yugoslav republics. In 2006, they became their own countries. 
It was on the west-central Balkan Peninsula, next Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia on the western sides, Hungary to the north, Romania and Bulgaria to the east, the Republic of Macedonia to the south and Albania to the southwest, with just over 200 km of coast on the Adriatic.
Serbia and Montenegro worked together in only some political areas. The states had separate economic policies and currencies (money). Although both the states now had more freedom to do as they pleased then they did as Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro was still a Sovereign State united under one government.
The people of Montenegro still wanted independence though, on 21 May 2006 they held a vote to ask the Montenegrin's whether they still wanted to stay in the union. The vote for independence won by 55.5%. On 3 June 2006 Montenegro declared independence; followed by Serbia's deceleration of independence two days later on the 5 June.

</doc>
<doc id="21081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21081" title="Minister (government)">
Minister (government)

A Minister can be a Member of Parliament, or a Clergyman (person who works as a Minister in the Church). This article talks about a Minister as a Member of Parliament.
A Minister is a Member of Parliament who has a special role dealing with a certain area of Government. In the British Government, there are Ministers for lots of different things, like Children, Work & Pensions and Culture, Media & Sport. There are descriptions (things that describe) of what these people do at the bottom of this page.
Ministers in the government report to the Prime Minister, who also tells them what they need to do in relation to their jobs. The Deputy Prime Minister also reports to the Prime Minister.
Other Ministers, even though they are not called Ministers, include the Foreign Secretary, and the Home Secretary.
Minister for Children
The Minister for Children looks after children's rights - these are laws which take care of how children are treated by their parents or guardians (a guardian is someone who looks after a child when their parents are not able to), and their care in society. The job means that this Minister has a special role in the lives of all children in the UK.
Minister for Work and Pensions
This Minister looks after jobs (Employment) and money given to people who are in need (Welfare Benefits). They set the rules saying what people who have no job must do to try and get one, and how much money people who have no job or are in need, get to live on. The Minister also sets rules about what happens to people who do not do enough to find a job, or who break the law by working while they are getting Welfare Benefits.
Minister for Culture, Media and Sport
This Minister has a special role which means they promote (make popular) British Culture and Traditions. They also take care of Broadcasting laws and laws about what newspapers and television stations can and cannot do. Also, they have a duty to promote sporting activities which take place in Britain and help the government attract major sports events to Britain (the recent decision to let Britain host the Olympic Games in 2012 is an example of this).
There are a lot of other Ministers in the Government, and you can find out about them by writing to the "Houses of Parliament"' in London. Their address is:
The Houses of Parliament
Westminster
London
SW1A 0AA
Other countries also have Ministers who, like those in Britain, deal with special things related to how people live. You can find out about them by looking at the Wikipedia in your own country.

</doc>
<doc id="21083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21083" title="Jealousy">
Jealousy

Jealousy or envy is a feeling (or emotion) people get when they want what others have. This is a negative feeling. When someone is jealous of someone else, he or she usually dislikes the other person. These particular emotions are usually caused by a person having a certain object or quality which you desire but can not obtain.
Under rational observation jealousy is not reasonable. Feeling jealous of something that someone else has isn't helping you get what you want, instead of feeling jealous, one should simply try and obtain the things that one wants instead of acting in a jealous manner. For example: Being jealous of someone's car. Instead of being rude about said car or bad mouthing person driving said car, work hard to earn money to acquire a similar car, then the jealous feelings should disappear.

</doc>
<doc id="21084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21084" title="Anger">
Anger

Anger is one of the basic emotions. It is an inherited response, and is common to all mammals and a number of other animals. It happens when we are threatened, offended, wronged, or denied something we really want or need. Rage is the strongest form of anger.
Anger is a normal emotion. It involves a strong, uncomfortable and emotional response to a provocation. There is a sharp distinction between anger and aggression (verbal or physical, direct or indirect). Both influence each other. Anger can start aggression or increase its probability or intensity. However, it is not necessary nor sufficient for aggression.
Anger is a bit like a pressure cooker: we can only apply pressure against our anger for a certain amount of time until it explodes.
People show anger to others by their face, what they do with their body, not trying to understand or help other people's problems, and sometimes acts of aggression or force in public (e.g. punching a wall). Animals and humans might try to scare- by making loud sounds, trying to make their bodies look bigger, by showing their teeth, or by staring.
When we face a challenge, our response may be anger or fear. It may be difficult to decide whether to face the challenge, or walk away. In animal behaviour terms, we face the choice of a fight or flight response.
Being angry changes the human body by making the heart beat faster, increasing blood pressure (the pressure made by the blood at right angles of the walls of blood vessels) and increasing amounts of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline (chemicals which send messages to parts of the body to make changes).
Being angry makes the levels of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline in the body go up, although this does not last for very long. Adrenaline quickly makes the body ready to act when there is important trouble by increasing the supply of oxygen and glucose (needed to make energy) to the brain and muscles, while slowing less important things the body is doing, like digesting food.
Noradrenaline is released during stress. It goes to areas of the brain which control attention (how much you think or concentrate) and reactions. It is very important when the body chooses "fight-or-flight" (attacking or running away). Then it increases heart rate, takes glucose out of storage so it can be used, and increases blood flow to muscles.
Anger may be passive anger or aggressive anger.
These two types of anger have some characteristic symptoms:
Passive anger can be expressed in various ways. Basically it means being angry, but not facing the issue at hand. 
The symptoms of aggressive anger are:

</doc>
<doc id="21095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21095" title="Light microscope">
Light microscope

A light microscope works like a refracting telescope except that the object is very close to the objective lens. An object to be studied, for example a tiny organism so small it looks like just a dot, is put on a slide, which is usually a flat piece of glass. The clips on the microscope's flat stage hold the slide in place. The stage can be adjusted to add more light. It also moves to allow different layers of the object to be in focus. The user looks through the microscope eyepiece. A mirror at the bottom of the microscope reflects light rays up to the object through a hole in the stage. Objective lenses magnify the image which is made even larger when it is seen through the eyepiece lenses. Some light microscopes are actually digital cameras, made to photograph small things but having no eyepiece. 
Many microscopes, often used in colleges and high schools, normally have a top magnification of 40x with the option of having 4x and 8x. This lets the microscope show basic cells and other items. Others can magnify hundreds of times, or thousands.
All modern optical microscopes designed for viewing samples by transmitted light share the same basic components of the light path, listed here in the order the light travels through them. Also almost all microscopes have the same 'structural' components:
These entries are numbered according to the image on the right.
Optical microscopes cannot show things that are smaller than light waves, because of the diffraction limit. Microscopes which can see smaller things include:

</doc>
<doc id="21113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21113" title="Category:Very good articles">
Category:Very good articles

This category contains articles that are of a very good quality. If you've helped write one of these articles, well done!
Please do not add your own articles to this page. If you think your article is good enough to go here, ask for a review. Articles can be proposed and discussed at if they meet most of the . 
See also .

</doc>
<doc id="21116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21116" title="Rembrandt">
Rembrandt

Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn (Leiden, 15 July 1606 – Amsterdam, 4 October 1669) was a famous Dutch painter and artist.
He is generally considered one of the greatest painters and printmakers in European art history, and the most important in Dutch history. His contributions to art came in a period that historians call the "Dutch Golden Age".
After his success as a young portrait painter, he had personal tragedy and financial hardships in his later years. Yet his etchings and paintings were popular throughout his lifetime, and his reputation as an artist remained high. For twenty years he taught nearly every important Dutch painter. 
Rembrandt's greatest creative work is seen in his portraits of his contemporaries, self-portraits and illustrations of scenes from the Bible. His self-portraits are a unique biography, in which the artist surveyed himself without vanity and with the utmost sincerity.
He went to the University Leiden but he liked painting better so he became a painter. In 1631 he went to live in Amsterdam, because people there had heard of him and wanted him to paint their portraits. He married a woman called Saskia van Uylenberg in 1634. They had four children, but three of them died very young. Only their fourth child, Titus, who was born in 1641, survived into adulthood. Saskia died in 1642 soon after Titus's birth, probably from tuberculosis.
During Saskia's illness, a nurse was hired, who probably also became Rembrandt's lover. She later charged Rembrandt with breach of promise and was awarded 200 guilders a year. When Rembrandt learned she had pawned Saskia's jewellery, which Rembrandt had given her, he had her committed for twelve years to a poorhouse (a 'bridewell') at Gouda.
Rembrandt then lived with a young woman called Hendrickje Stoffels from Bredevoort who had been his maid. They had a daughter called Cornelia. Rembrandt died in Amsterdam on 4 October 1669.
Rembrandt painted many famous pictures. The portraits use light and shade; sitters are often shown in a calm or thoughtful appearance. He was such a good painter, that many of his pictures make people feel as if they are taking part in what is happening. Paintings by Rembrandt can be seen in art galleries all over the world.
Throughout his work Rembrandt used colour which darkens as it approaches the edge of the painting, and lighter towards the center. There is always a certain person, or event, or group of people that is near the center, and they are shown to be brighter than the rest of the picture. However the dark backgrounds are not to be ignored. They are painted to be as interesting and important as the main focus. In most of his paintings there are deep whites and blacks which shows contrasts between different parts of the work.

</doc>
<doc id="21119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21119" title="Major movie studios">
Major movie studios

The Big Eight are the United States's major movie production studios who also distribute their product. Most of them have their offices in Hollywood.
The Big Six are the group of major companies who own them. Their main offices are mostly far from Hollywood.

</doc>
<doc id="21120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21120" title="Culinary mustard">
Culinary mustard

Culinary mustard is a condiment people use when making food. It comes from the seeds of the mustard plant.
Mustard is prepared by grinding the seeds of the Mustard plant, and mixing them with water or vinegar. Depending on which seeds are taken, and/or how much vinegar is added, the mustard may turn out hotter or less hot.
Most mustard is made available as a bottled condiment and can be spread on a slice of sandwich bread or squirted onto a hotdog along with ketchup, horseradish and other spices. It is also commonly found in most fast-food restaurants in the form of a small packet which the diner may open and squeeze into the dish of choice, but it is usually already included in the average hamburger bun.

</doc>
<doc id="21121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21121" title="Condiment">
Condiment

A condiment is a prepared food that is put to other food, to make the food better or taste different. It usually is in the form of a sauce or a powder. Salt and pepper are examples of well-known condiments. Ketchup, mustard, relish, mayonnaise, horseradish, soy sauce and Worcestershire sauce are also well-known condiments.

</doc>
<doc id="21127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21127" title="Vinegar">
Vinegar

Vinegar is a liquid used mostly in cooking. It can be made from wine or other liquids containing alcohol, like cider or fermented fruit juices. Ethanol is oxidized from the liquid, resulting in vinegar.
Vinegar made from dates is a traditional product of the Middle East. It can also be made through the use of certain bacteria. Vinegar contains about 5% of Acetic acid. The acid makes it sour. 
In cooking, it is often used as a condiment to add to salad, fish and vegetables like pickles and cabbage. It is much used in salad dressings.
The pH of vinegar depends on how much acid is in it. Apple cider vinegar is typically between pH 4.25 and 5.00 if undiluted. Distilled vinegar has a pH of around 2.4.

</doc>
<doc id="21128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21128" title="Insecticide">
Insecticide

An insecticide is a poison made to kill insects and spiders.
Insects are very tough animals that have adapted to a great variety of settings. Therefore, the poison used to kill them is also deadly to humans. There can be great danger of eating pesticide when you have vegetables. This is why often people will rub an apple on their jumper before eating it. This adds a nice shine to the apple and rubs away some of the pesticides. If you do not clean the jumper there is a risk pesticide might build up.

</doc>
<doc id="21130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21130" title="Paranoia">
Paranoia

Paranoia is a mental health condition that affects a person's thoughts. A person with paranoia is called paranoid. Paranoia is a thought process heavily influenced by anxiety or fear, often to the point of irrationality and delusion.
A paranoid person's thinking is shaped by fear and anxiety. For example, the person may fear that other people are "out to get him" or are planning to hurt him. He might believe that video cameras are watching him, or that a certain group (like the police or CIA) is following him. Or he might believe that other people can control his thoughts or use magic to hurt him. Even if these fears seem strange or absurd to others, they feel very real to the person with paranoia. He truly believes that he is in danger.
Paranoia is different from phobias. In a phobia, someone has an irrational fear, but does not blame anyone for this fear. A paranoid person will often make false accusations and say that something was intentional, when it was just coincidence or an accident.
If a person is truly paranoid, his fears must not be explained by common beliefs, like his religion. For example, some religions say that people can use magic to hurt others. So a person from one of those religions should not be diagnosed as paranoid just because he/she has this belief. They would also have to have other paranoid beliefs - which could not be explained by religious beliefs - to be diagnosed with paranoia.
Very often, people with paranoia also have other thought disorders, or mood disorders. Paranoia can be a symptom of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and other mental illnesses. 
In everyday talk, people may use "paranoid" to mean more normal worries. For example, someone may call a friend paranoid for thinking that his teacher hates him.

</doc>
<doc id="21131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21131" title="Delusion">
Delusion

A delusion is a false belief held by a person. If doctors talk about delusions they mean that the false belief is the result of some disease, usually a disease of the mind, such as "paranoia", "schizophrenia" or "bipolar disorder".
Delusions also have other properties, according to Karl Jaspers:
Studies on psychiatric patients show that delusions vary in intensity and conviction over time, which suggests that certainty and incorrigibility are not necessary components of a delusional belief.
Delusions do not necessarily have to be false or 'incorrect inferences about external reality'. Some religious or spiritual beliefs by their nature may not be falsifiable, and hence cannot be described as false or incorrect, no matter whether the person holding these beliefs was diagnosed as delusional or not.
A doctor or psychiatrist may say that a delusion is false, because it "seems" to be unlikely or bizarre.Psychiatrists rarely have the time or resources to check the validity of a person’s claims; this means that some true beliefs are erroneously classified as delusional. This is known as the Martha Mitchell effect, after the wife of the attorney general who alleged that illegal activity was taking place in the White House. At the time her claims were thought to be signs of mental illness. Only after the Watergate scandal was she proved right, and sane.
Treating delusions is difficult, but in some cases antypsychotics can be used. If the delusions pose a risk to the health of the patient or the health of others, people may also be treated against their will. 

</doc>
<doc id="21132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21132" title="Paganism">
Paganism

Paganism is a term that covers a great number of spiritual and religious beliefs, and someone who follows one of these beliefs is known as a Pagan. Those in ancient times, who are called "Pagans" today, believed there was not just one god but a number of gods and goddesses. The stories from Greek mythology are famous examples from a pagan religion. Pagans usually focus on spirituality and nature, rather than on doctrines and dogma.
The word "pagan" (without a capital P) is often used to describe anyone who is not of the Abrahamic religions. A similar term is "heathen". Today Pagan, with a capital P, often refers to people who follow Neo-Pagan religions that honour the Earth. The best known Neo-Pagan religion is Wicca. Another well-known neo-pagan faith is Druidism, but there are many other Neo-Pagan religions with different beliefs.

</doc>
<doc id="21133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21133" title="Category:Music genres">
Category:Music genres


</doc>
<doc id="21136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21136" title="1578">
1578

Year 1578 (MDLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="21137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21137" title="1504">
1504

1504 was a year of the Gregorian calendar, that started on a Friday.

</doc>
<doc id="21138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21138" title="1726">
1726


</doc>
<doc id="21144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21144" title="Courage">
Courage

A person has courage if he does something even though he is afraid. Courage can be doing things that other people think should be scary. A person has courage if he puts himself in danger to save another person. If someone has courage, it is said that they are courageous, standing up for what you believe in.
For example, someone may be said to have courage if they fight a lion, or save a baby from a burning building. 

</doc>
<doc id="21147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21147" title="1710s">
1710s


</doc>
<doc id="21157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21157" title="Fanatic">
Fanatic

Fanatic is a word which means someone who loves a thing, or a person, or an idea more than anything else. It is used to talk about people who care a lot about politics, religion or their own group of people. Some fanatics can hurt other people who they do not like, or who they do not agree with.
A short form of the word, Fan, means a person who loves a hobby, a sport (often a team), music, a kind of movie or book, or almost anything. These people mostly do not try to hurt people. This word is used in American English. There are lots of kinds of fans, including science fiction fans and fans of popular music stars, like The Beatles. Fans will meet with each other to talk about and share their interest, often in large groups called conventions.
In British English, supporter is their word for a person who likes and supports a sportsperson or a team. Many teams of some sports have thousands of supporters, for example, the football team Real Madrid.
In American English, supporter is more often used to talk about people in politics. Supporters of a politician, a political party, or an idea like government regulation like their subject very much, but usually are not violent.

</doc>
<doc id="21161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21161" title="Formula One">
Formula One

Formula One is a type of motorsport. Teams compete in a series of Grand Prix races, held in different countries around the world. Some of the most popular races are held in Monaco, Japan, Italy and Britain. The cars are very fast, reaching speeds of up to 350 kilometers per hour. The championship has been won many times by different teams like McLaren, Ferrari and Williams. Teams can consist of as many as 600 people, who all come together every race weekend, and using each of their individual expertise try to obtain the best result - a victory. The winning driver and team each get twenty-five points towards the Drivers' and Constructors' Championship. Teams consist of drivers, test drivers, a team principal, mechanics, engineers, and designers. Winning a race takes a good qualifying position, flawless strategy, perfect pitstops and a fast car. If you get the most poles (first place) then you get a trophy. This was added in 2014
Drivers are paid huge salaries and money to risk their lives every time they step into the cockpit of the F1 car. Like all types of motor racing, the dangers associated with Formula One are great. Therefore, there are many safety measures. Drivers wear 4 layers of flameproof overalls, made of a fire resistant material called Nomex. A drivers helmet must be able to resist an 800 degree celsius flame for at least 45 seconds, as well as big G forces. The helmets are so strong that they can be driven over by trucks with no damage being done to them. Carbon fibre is the ideal material for the bodywork of Formula One cars, as it is light and strong. Because of this, the cars are very expensive to build and repair. The design of cars differs from team to team. Each team has two entries into the championship, which means two cars to build. The current tyre suppliers are Pirelli - making sure every car has the right tyre for the differing weather conditions. Wet weather driving is considered a skill in Formula One, as the cars are harder to drive. 
The body that runs Formula One, the FIA, is based in France. Although Formula One is a 'billion dollar business', a drop in viewership and attendance figures at races has prompted the FIA to make a number of rule changes in recent years. These changes are meant to make the races more interesting, so more people watch F1 on television.

</doc>
<doc id="21162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21162" title="Abdullah Öcalan">
Abdullah Öcalan

Abdullah Öcalan is the leader of Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), an insurgent organization in Turkey. Turkey branded Abdullah Öcalan as a terrorist and has been imprisoned for the rest of his life for terrorist activities in 1999. "Öcalan" means, in Turkish, "he who takes revenge".
He was born on April 4, 1949 into a poor peasant family in the village of Ömerli, in the district of Harran in Şanlıurfa Province. He studied at vocational school and then pursued a course at the School of Political Science, Ankara University. He became involved in militant Maoist politics and was first arrested in 1973. In 1975 he went to Syria where he was one of the founder members of the PKK in 1978. At the First Congress in November 1978 he was elected leader.
Although the organization was named the Kurdistan Workers Party, it never became a real political party and it was not registered as one, because it would have been rejected by Turkey which did not agree with its ideology.
He left Turkey in 1979, before the military coup of September 1980, which led to the imprisonment of thousands of members and sympathisers of the organization. In 1982 the PKK decided to resume guerrilla warfare inside Turkey and in August 1984 the military wing, the Liberation Units of Kurdistan (HRK), began operations. In 1985 the political wing was renamed the National Liberation Front of Kurdistan (ERNK) and in 1986 the HRK became the Peoples Liberation Army of Kurdistan (ARGK). Öcalan's pronouncements had become increasingly moderate through the 1990s, publicly he stated his desire to move the PKK away from violence and towards a political approach.
He was forced out of his group's base in Syria, following pressure from Turkey, in November 1998. He fled to Russia and then Europe, he was arrested after arriving from Moscow at Rome's Fiumicino Airport. He was soon released while he appealed for political asylum, Italian law forbids the extradition of someone to a country where they would face a death sentence. An extradition request from Germany also collapsed amid political maneuvering. He left Italy on January 16, 1999 and returned to Russia but soon left for Greece, apparently intending to fly from there to The Hague. He was refused entry to a number of European states and instead, on February 3 the Greek authorities flew him to Nairobi, Kenya.
On February 15, 1999 Turkey succeeded in kidnapping or arresting him in Nairobi and quickly transported him to Turkey. The details of his capture remain unclear. On February 16, across Europe, Kurdish supporters responded with protests, acts of violence and terrorism. Öcalan was charged with treason in Ankara, Turkey on February 23. 
Öcalan was held as the only inmate on the prison island of Imrali. He was tried before a military court on the island from May 31, 1999. The trial had six days of proceedings and following various adjournments he was sentenced to death on June 29. His appeal was rejected in November but the sentence was suspended while there was a review by the European Court of Human Rights. In September 2002 a Turkish court finally reduced his sentence to life imprisonment. The country had abandoned the death penalty in August 2002 as part of the process towards joining the European Union.

</doc>
<doc id="21163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21163" title="Caribbean Community">
Caribbean Community

The Caribbean Community , or CARICOM, is a group of nations in the Caribbean Sea that have come together. They share their products, and they have a government to help organize the area. They are mainly together to help trade and their economies.
The full members are:

</doc>
<doc id="21167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21167" title="1747">
1747


</doc>
<doc id="21168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21168" title="1762">
1762


</doc>
<doc id="21169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21169" title="1620">
1620


</doc>
<doc id="21170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21170" title="1520">
1520


</doc>
<doc id="21172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21172" title="List of towns in Greenland">
List of towns in Greenland

This is a list of the towns in Greenland that have over 1,000 people living in them (the first name is in Greenlandic, the second is in Danish):

</doc>
<doc id="21173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21173" title="Qaqortoq">
Qaqortoq

Qaqortoq, also known by its Danish name "Julianehåb", is a town in southwestern Greenland. With a population of 3,100, it is South Greenland's biggest town. It is the fourth biggest town in Greenland. The name Qaqortoq is Western Greenlandic, and it means "white". Qaqortoq also is the seat of the Municipality of Qaqortoq which apart from the town itself includes three small settlements. Qaqortoq was founded by Norwegian Anders Olsen in 1775. Near Qaqortoq are the Hvalsey ruins, the most famous Norse ruins in Greenland.
"Greenland and the Arctic". By Etain O'Carroll and Mark Elliott. Lonely Planet 2005. ISBN 1-74059-095-3.

</doc>
<doc id="21174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21174" title="Sisimiut">
Sisimiut

Sisimiut (also known by its Danish name 'Holsteinsborg') is a town in southwestern Greenland. With 5,247 people (as of 2005), it is the second biggest town in Greenland. It is 75 kilometers north of the Arctic Circle, and is Greenland's most northern year-round port which has no ice. 

</doc>
<doc id="21176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21176" title="Arctic Circle">
Arctic Circle

The Arctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude (imaginary lines around the Earth) that are often marked on maps of the Earth. This is the parallel of latitude that (in 2000) runs 66° 33' 39" north of the Equator.
The Arctic Circle is one way to say what part of the Earth is in the Arctic. The North Pole is in the center of the Arctic Circle.
Countries which are partly within the Arctic Circle are:
The position of the Arctic Circle is not fixed. It directly depends on the Earth's axial tilt. The axial tilt fluctuates within a margin of 2° over a 40,000-year period, mostly due to tidal forces from the orbit of the Moon. The Arctic Circle is currently drifting northwards at a speed of about per year; see "Circle of latitude" for more information.

</doc>
<doc id="21177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21177" title="Kabul">
Kabul

Kabul is the capital and the largest city in Afghanistan. 
According to a 2012 estimate, the population of the city was around 3,289,000. Ths includes Tajiks, Pashtuns, Hazaras and smaller numbers of Afghans belonging to other ethnic groups. It is the 64th largest and the 5th fastest growing city in the world.
It is 1,800 meters, or 5,900 feet above-sea-level. Kabul is over 3,500 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="21178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21178" title="Parfait">
Parfait

Parfait is a type of food that is eaten as a dessert. It is a French word that means "perfect". 
Parfaits are made differently in different countries.
A common parfait is the French kind. A French parfait mixes sugar, whip cream, an egg yolk, sauce, cold fruit and frozen ice cream. French parfaits are usually served on a plate not in a glass.
Japanese parfait made mainly of ice cream and fruit with a sweet ingredient. It is served in a tall glass. It is a classic on a coffee shop menu. It is one of the more popular desserts.

</doc>
<doc id="21179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21179" title="Parrot">
Parrot

Parrots are birds of the order Psittaciformes. There are roughly 372 species in 86 genera and they are found in most tropical and subtropical regions. The greatest diversity of parrots is found in South America and Australasia.
Parrots are intelligent birds. They have relatively large brains, they can learn, and they can use simple tools. Because some species have the ability to make sounds like human voices and have plumages with bright colors, many species are kept as pets. This includes some endangered and protected species.
Parrots have a heavy, in relation to their size, and compact body with a large head and a short neck. Their beaks are short, strong and curved. The two parts of the beak are very strong and used to break fruits and seeds. The tongue is large and strong.
They have strong legs, and clawed zygodactyl feet (with two toes facing forward and two toes facing back) that are very useful to climb up trees. Many parrots are vividly coloured, and some are multi-coloured. The plumage of cockatoos ranges from mostly white to mostly black, with a mobile crest of feathers on the tops of their heads. Most parrots exhibit little or no sexual dimorphism.
They form the most variably sized bird order in terms of length. The smallest of the parrots is the pigmy parrot ("Micropsitta pusio") with and adult weight of and a length of . With a length (from the top of its head to the tip of its long pointed tail) of about , the hyacinth macaw ("Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus") is longer than any other species of parrot, although half that length is tail.
The order is subdivided into three superfamilies: the Psittacoidea ('true' parrots), the Cacatuoidea (cockatoos) and the Strigopoidea (New Zealand parrots). The greatest diversity of parrots is found in South America and Australasia.
The most important components of most parrots' diets are seeds, fruits like nuts, buds and other plant material. A few species sometimes eat animals and carrion, while the lories and lorikeets are specialised for feeding on floral nectar and soft fruits. Almost all parrots nest in tree hollows, and lay white eggs from which hatch altricial (helpless) young.
Parrots are among the most intelligent birds, as are the crow family: ravens, crows, jays and magpies, and the ability of some species to make sounds like human voices enhances their popularity as pets.
The capture of wild parrots for the pet trade, as well as hunting, habitat loss and competition from invasive species, has diminished wild populations, with parrots being subjected to more exploitation than any other group of birds. Measures taken to conserve the habitats of some high-profile species have also protected many of the less charismatic species living in the same ecosystems.
Some parrots live up to 80 years. Many parrots can imitate human speech; they can speak simple words if repeated a few times.
Transposons in the genomes of passerines and parrots are similar, but those in the genomes of other birds are not. This is strong evidence that parrots are the sister group of passerines.
Europe is the origin of the first presumed parrot fossils, which date from about 50 million years ago (mya). The climate there and then was tropical. Several fairly complete skeletons of parrot-like birds have been found in England and Germany. On the whole it seems likely that these are not direct ancestors of the modern parrots, but related lineages which evolved in the northern hemisphere, and which have since died out.
The earliest records of modern parrots date to about 23–20 mya and are also from Europe. Subsequently, the fossil record—again mainly from Europe—consists of bones clearly recognisable as belonging to parrots of modern type. The southern hemisphere does not have nearly as rich a fossil record for this period as the northern, and contains no known parrot-like remains earlier than the early to middle Miocene, around 20 mya. The first unambiguous parrot fossil (as opposed to a parrot-like one) is found in the Miocene. It is an upper jaw, identical that of modern cockatoos.

</doc>
<doc id="21180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21180" title="Angel food cake">
Angel food cake

Angel food cake is an example of cake that became popular in the United States in the 19th century. It is also called angel cake. It is very light and fluffy. Because of this, it is named Angel cake because it is said to be "food for the angels."
Angel food cake needs the egg whites to be whipped until they are stiff, and carefully folded into the other ingredients. For this method of "leavening" to work well, it is helpful to have flour that has been made of softer wheat. This causes angel food cake to have a very light texture and taste. Angel food cake should be cut with a serrated knife, as a solid blade tends to compress the cake rather than cut it.
Some cooks like Alton Brown add aromatic spices to angel food cake.

</doc>
<doc id="21187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21187" title="Wrench">
Wrench

A wrench (or spanner) is a tool used to provide grip and turn nuts and bolts, and similarly shaped objects.
In British English, "spanner" is the standard term. The most common shapes are called "open-ended spanner" and "ring spanner". The term "wrench" is generally used for tools that turn non-fastening devices (e.g. tap wrench and pipe wrench), or may be used for a monkey wrench – an adjustable spanner.
What a wrench or spanner does is to grip. Pulling or pushing the handle to rotate gives mechanical advantage. It applies torque to turn objects – usually rotary fasteners, such as nuts and boltss – or keep them from turning.
An adjustable spanner, or adjustable wrench, or crescent wrench in American English, is a tool. It may move its jaw to rotate nuts or bolts of different sizes. It was invented by Edwin Beard Budding (1795–1846), who also invented the lawnmower.

</doc>
<doc id="21193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21193" title="Salman Rushdie">
Salman Rushdie

Salman Rushdie, ( Nastaliq: ; born 19 June 1947) known as "Mallun Rushdie" in the Islamic world, is a novelist and essayist. He is the author of "Midnight's Children" (1981), which won the Booker Prize. It later won the "Booker of Bookers". Rushdie was born in India, but was sent to England to go to private school. He has lived in the United States since 2000.
Salman Rushdie is well-known for writing stories which use "magic realism", which is similar to surrealism. This means that things in his stories happen which may be magic or impossible, such as falling from an aeroplane and floating down as gently as paper. He often writes about India, and his stories often are set in different parts of the world.
In 1988, Rushdie wrote a book called "The Satanic Verses". The book included a fictional story about some characters with a made-up religion. Some people have said that it insults Muhammad, but others disagree. Rushdie said about the story: "his Prophet was not called Muhammad, lived in a city not called Mecca, and created a religion not (or not quite) called Islam. And he appeared only in the dream sequences of a man being driven insane by his loss of faith.". Because of this book, a fatwa was issued by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran. It called for Rushdie's execution.
The leader of the country of Iran talked on the radio about Rushdie. He said that Rushdie did not believe in Islam and that Rushdie should be executed because he thought the book was bad. This is called a fatwa. In the year 1989, the British government began protecting Rushdie. He says he has always been an atheist, but is still interested in religion.
Rushdie was knighted for services to literature in the Queen's Birthday Honours on 16 June 2007. Many nations with Muslim majorities were not happy with this. Pakistan's Religious Affairs Minister Muhammad Ijaz-ul-Haq said the knighthood was wrong. Then the Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto said this was not the way Pakistan thought. Their fathers Zia-ul-Haq and Zulfikar Ali Bhutto were in Rushdie's novel "Shame".
The BBC said that "In 1998, the Iranian Government gave a public commitment it would not carry out the death sentence against Mr Rushdie", but some people such as "Iranian hardliners" don't agree.
He has been married four times. His last marriage was to actress and model Padma Lakshmi; they divorced in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="21195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21195" title="Lilo &amp; Stitch">
Lilo &amp; Stitch

Lilo & Stitch is a 2002 animated movie, released by Walt Disney Pictures and produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation. on June 21, 2002. The 42nd animated movie in the Disney animated features canon, it was written by and directed by Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois. It was the second of three Disney animated movies produced mainly at the Walt Disney Feature Animation Florida studio in Walt Disney World's Disney-MGM Studios in Orlando, Florida. The movie was rated PG for "mild sci-fi action". "Lilo & Stitch" was nominated for the 2002 Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, which went to Hayao Miyazaki's movie, "Spirited Away" which also was released by Walt Disney Pictures and starred Daveigh Chase (in the English version).
The movie was so popular, that a direct-to-video sequel, "Stitch! The Movie", was made. They launched a television series, ', and a second direct-to-video sequel, ', was released in August 2005. A third and final television sequel, "Leroy & Stitch", was released in June 2006 and ended the TV series. Another television series, an anime called "Stitch!", aired in Japan from 2008 to 2011, later gaining two post-series specials in 2012 and 2015.
The movie was released on VHS and DVD on December 3, 2002. In 2003, a 2-disc DVD version was announced to come out along with "Alice in Wonderland" and "Pocahontas", which were released in 2004 and 2005. A 2-Disc Special Edition DVD of "Lilo & Stitch" was released in the UK on August 22, 2005, along with the UK release of "", but a release in the US was affected by many delays. On March 24, 2009, Disney finally released the special edition DVD, which is called a 2-Disc "Big Wave Edition". This new DVD has everything that the original DVD had and adds an audio commentary, a 2-hour documentary, more deleted scenes, a number of behind-the-scenes featurettes, and some games. The original DVD is no longer available, with the new one having the same list price.
An evil alien scientist named Dr. Jumba Jookiba creates many creatures. This is against the law of his planet, and he is arrested. One experiment, named "626", escapes the planet. He flies a spaceship to Earth.
On Earth, a little human girl named Lilo adopts him (thinking he is a dog) and names him "Stitch". Lilo lives in Hawaii, a series of islands in the United States of America. Lilo's mother and father have died in a car crash, so her older sister Nani takes care of her.
Stitch becomes Lilo's best friend. Lilo tries to teach Stitch how to be good. She uses music by Elvis Presley in her lessons. He also learns a new phrase: "Ohana means family. Family means nobody gets left behind or forgotten." Alien officials find Stitch on Earth and take him and Lilo away. In the end they decide to let Stitch stay with Lilo in Hawaii.
The movie opened at #2 with $35,260,212 in its first weekend, less than $500,000 behind the movie "Minority Report". In its second week, fell to #3, again behind the Steven Spielberg movie at #2. The movie made $145,794,338 in the United States and Canada, and $127,349,813 internationally, finishing with $273,144,151 in the world.
"Lilo & Stitch" received very positive reviews from critics and movie-goers alike, and it was the most successful Walt Disney Pictures movie after the Disney Renaissance of 1989 to 1999 until "Bolt" a few years later. The movie's success at the box office and on DVD led to a franchise, with three direct-to-video and televisions sequels and two television series. The movie has received 139 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes, 119 positive and 20 negative, giving it a positive total rating of 86%.
The soundtrack of the movie was released by Walt Disney Records on June 21, 2002.
It, along with the movie, has more Elvis Presley songs than any of Elvis' own movies.
On August 26, 2003, Disney released a direct-to-video sequel, "Stitch! The Movie", which was made as the pilot to a TV series titled "". This series ran for 65 episodes between on September 20, 2003 and July 29, 2006. The series carried on where the movie left off and showed Lilo's efforts to capture and re-home Jumba's remaining experiments. This series ended with TV movie "Leroy & Stitch", which was released on June 27, 2006.
On August 2005, "", the "official" direct-to-video sequel to the movie, was released. In this movie, Stitch has a glitch because his molecules were never fully charged (this is different than a deleted opening, "Stitch's trial", which was seen on the DVD release of Lilo & Stitch). Lilo wants to win the May Day hula contest like her mother did in the 1970s, but Stitch continues to have problems. Lilo thinks Stitch is not behaving right, until she finds out that Stitch is dying.
In March 2008, Disney announced that it is to produce a remade version of "Lilo & Stitch", called "Stitch!", for the Japanese market. The show, which began in October 2008, features a Japanese girl named Yuna (formerly referred to as Hanako) in place of Lilo, and is set on a fictional island in Okinawa prefecture instead of Hawaii. The series is produced by the Japanese animation house Madhouse LTD.

</doc>
<doc id="21204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21204" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs is a list of the top one hundred comedy movies in American cinema. The American Film Institute presented it on June 14, 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="21206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21206" title="Irish Sea">
Irish Sea

The Irish Sea (sometimes called the Manx Sea) is a body of water that separates Ireland and Great Britain. It is known to be one of the most polluted seas in the world including the North Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. The sea is important to regional trade, shipping and fishing. It is a source of power generation in the form of wind power and nuclear plants. Annual traffic between Great Britain and Ireland amounts to over 12 million passengers and of traded goods.
It covers and at its deepest point is deep. In 2008, about of fish were caught. Shell fish made up three quarters of this amount.
The Irish Sea has 17 active oil and gas drilling platforms. It is estimated there are about 1.6 billion barrels of oil in the Barryroe oil field alone. 
At least thirty species of shark can be found in the Irish Sea at different times. These include the basking, thresher, blue, mako and porbeagle sharks. There are about 12 species of Dolphin, porpoise and whales in the Irish Sea. These include the common dolphin, bottlenose dolphin and the harbor porpoise.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="21212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21212" title="Party (disambiguation)">
Party (disambiguation)

A party is a social gathering primarily for celebration and recreation. 
Party could also mean an individual person, or group of individuals:
Parti (a foreign spelling) may also mean:
in the video game industry:

</doc>
<doc id="21213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21213" title="Hatred">
Hatred

Hate or hatred is an emotion of very strong dislike for someone or something. It is a desire to avoid, restrict, remove, or destroy that person or thing. It is often thought the opposite of love.
Sigmund Freud said that hatred was a selfish feeling that wishes to get rid of whatever is making that person unhappy. The "Penguin Dictionary of Psychology" says that hate is a "deep, enduring (long-lasting), intense emotion expressing , anger, and towards a person, group, or object."
Hatred can often cause the hate crime and International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights prohibits inciting hatred by the Article 20.

</doc>
<doc id="21225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21225" title="1270">
1270


</doc>
<doc id="21230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21230" title="Dallas">
Dallas

Dallas is a large city in the northern part of the U.S. of Texas. It is a part of a much larger group of cities called the Metroplex, along with important cities like Arlington, Denton, Fort Worth, and Plano. The city is one of the largest in the United States.
The city is home to the Dallas Cowboys, a professional American football team.
The city is also home to the Dallas Stars, a hockey team in the NHL, the Texas Rangers, a baseball team in the MLB, and the Dallas Mavericks, a basketball team in the NBA.
The city of Dallas was started in 1841 by John Neely Bryan. Over time, it grew into a large city with many companies. In 1915, Southern Methodist University opened in Dallas. 
On November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy was shot dead. On July 7, 2016, five police officers were shot dead.
Dallas has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="21231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21231" title="Ilulissat">
Ilulissat

Ilulissat (population 4,000) is the third largest city in Greenland. The town is about halfway up the country's west coast, at 69 degrees north latitude, about 200 kilometers north of the Arctic Circle. Illulisat is also known by its Danish name of Jakobshavn (or Jacob's Harbour). In direct translation, Ilulissat is the Greenlandic word for 'The Icebergs'. Ilulissat is Greenland's most popular tourist place, because it is near to the beautiful Ilulissat Ice Fjord - tourism is now the town's main industry. Ilulissat was the birthplace of the great polar explorer Knud Rasmussen, and his childhood home in the center of the town is now a museum dedicated to him.
Inuit villages have been in the area of the ice fjord for at least three thousand years. The abandoned settlement of Sermermiut two kilometers south of the modern town of Ilulissat was once amongst the largest settlements in Greenland, with around 250 residents. The modern town was founded in 1741 by a missionary and a trader of fur, who had built a trading lodge in the area. 
The Ilulissat fjord goes west 40 kilometers from the Greenland icecap to Disko Bay, close to Ilulissat town. At its eastern end is the Jakobshavn Isbrae Glacier, the most productive glacier in the Northern Hemisphere. The glacier flows at a rate of 20-35 metres per day, resulting in around 20 billion tons of icebergs breaking off and leaving the fjord every year. On breaking up the icebergs come out into the open sea and at first, they travel north with ocean currents. Soon, they start turning south and they go into the Atlantic Ocean. 
The Ilulissat Icefjord was made a United Nations World Heritage Site in 2004.
Air Greenland has air services to Ilulissat.

</doc>
<doc id="21232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21232" title="Chimpanzee">
Chimpanzee

Chimpanzees are great apes of the genus Pan. They live in Africa.
The common chimpanzee lives in West and Central Africa. The bonobo lives in the rain forests of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The two species are on opposite sides of the Congo River.
Chimpanzees mainly eat fruit, leaves, flowers, seeds, bark, honey, insects, bird eggs, and meat. They spend a lot of time with other chimpanzees from their group, acting up, playing, and chatting. Sometimes they will groom each other; combing and looking through each other's thick fur; picking out the dirt and insects. Grooming helps chimps feel comfortable and friendly.
Like apes, chimpanzees can walk on two feet, but they prefer to move about on all four legs. They have hands that look like human hands, but their thumbs are shorter than those of humans. At night, chimpanzees sleep in nests that they make on tree branches. They bend twigs and tuck in leaves to make a soft platform to rest in a place that is safe from enemies on the ground. The gestation period of chimpanzees lasts between six and eight months. Usually only one offspring is produced; they rarely have twins. Chimpanzees live up to 60 years in the wild.
Jane Goodall has studied chimpanzees since 1960. She observed how chimpanzees use tools in several ways. They will pick up rocks to crack nuts for a meal. They also strip down twigs and stick them into a termite mound to collect a tasty snack. Some have been known to make a sponge from leaves in order to hold more drinking water. The chimp chews leaves to soften them up, dips them in rainwater, and then squeezes the water into its mouth. Chimpanzees are also known to think ahead and solve problems.
The behaviour described in this section refers to the common chimpanzee. At present there is no evidence that the bonobo has a similar level of aggressive behaviour.
Chimpanzees attack "Colobus" monkeys by working as a team to corner them in the high branches of the forest. When caught the monkey is torn apart and eaten. It is thought the main benefit is that meat is a more rich source of nutrition than their usual vegetarian diet.
If they can, male chimpanzees try to kill the male members of neighbouring groups. Males work together when they spot a chance to make a lightning raid on an isolated male from the other group. They kill him. In Gombe, Tanzania, a group in the 1970s was seen to kill seven of their neighbours one by one, until all were gone. It can take years for this to happen but, when it does, the remaining females and the neighbouring territory are added to the now larger group. Attacks like this are carefully planned, done only when success is likely, and carried out in silence.
The advantage for the males that triumph is to breed more children. Their tribe also holds a larger territory, and so has access to more food. Several authors have drawn a connection between this behaviour and the origins of human warfare.
Chimpanzees show their emotions with their faces and sounds. They make hooting sounds to express the discovery of food, and the face of a chimpanzee with a scowling face and lips pressed is to express annoyance. This means the chimpanzee may attack. Or, the chimpanzee may bare its teeth to express that it is afraid or that a more dominant chimp is approaching.
According to a genome study done by the Chimpanzee Sequencing and Analysis Consortium, humans share either 96% or 95% of their DNA with chimpanzees. However, this applies only to single nucleotide polymorphisms, that is, changes in "single" base pairs only. The full picture is rather different.
24% of the chimpanzee genome does not align with the human genome, and so cannot be directly compared. There are 3% further alignment gaps, 1.23% SNP differences, and 2.7% copy number variations totaling at least 30% differences between chimpanzee and "Homo sapiens" genomes. On the other hand, 30% of all human proteins are identical in sequence to the corresponding chimpanzee proteins.

</doc>
<doc id="21235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21235" title="Meridian">
Meridian

A meridian is an imaginary line of longitude drawn along the surface of the earth from the North Pole to the South Pole. 
Geographers today measure these lines from what they call the Prime Meridian. It is the line of longitude that goes through the Royal Greenwich Observatory in Greenwich, England. They decided this at the 1884 "International Meridian Conference".
Meridians, as lines of longitude, are measured in degrees. The Prime Meridian, as the starting point, is 0 (zero) degrees. Lines west of the Prime Meridian are either called "west", as in "the longitude of Los Angeles, California is 118 degrees west", or as a negative number: "the longitude of Los Angeles, California is -118 degrees". Going the other direction, east of the Prime Meridian is always said as a positive number: "The longitude of Mecca is about 40 degrees east," or just "The longitude of Mecca is about 40 degrees."

</doc>
<doc id="21238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21238" title="1700s">
1700s


</doc>
<doc id="21239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21239" title="District">
District

A district is an area or locality. In some places, it is a kind of local government. 
Some of the countries districts are used in are Austria, Belgium, China, England, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan, India, Portugal, Switzerland, the United States, and many more.
In the South Asian subcontinent, including India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan, the common term for an official or government administration district is Zillah.

</doc>
<doc id="21240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21240" title="Literacy">
Literacy

Literacy means the ability to read and write. Being able to read and write is an important skill in modern societies. Usually, people learn how to read and write at school. People who can read and write are called "literate"; those who cannot are called "illiterate".
According to UNESCO, illiteracy is not being able to write or read a simple sentence in any language. They estimated that, in 1998, about 16% of the world's population were illiterate. 
Illiteracy is highest amongst the states of the Arabian Peninsula, and in Africa, around the Sahara. In those countries about 30% of men, and 40-50% of women are illiterate, by the UN definition. One of the causes of illiteracy is that someone who can manage to live without being able to read and write often does not have any reason to want to learn to read and write. Cultural factors also play a part, such as having a culture in which the oral tradition (communicating by speaking) is more important than writing. A tribe that mostly herds livestock, for example, may have no need to read or write. 
There are two different kinds of illiteracy:
In English the word literacy has traditionally meant to be well educated. It also meant to be familiar with literature (to know about books). In the late 19th century the word came to include the ability to read and write. It still kept its larger meaning. In modern usage, literacy also means being able to read print, visual, and sound texts. To continue learning students must be literate in more than just reading and writing text.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="21243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21243" title="Isle of Man">
Isle of Man

The Isle of Man () is an island in the Irish Sea, off the coast of Great Britain (of which it is a crown dependency). Douglas is the capital city. It also has a flag with a red background and 3 armoured legs joined together - "whichever way you throw us, we always land on our feet".
It has a Parliament called Tynwald. It is the longest running parliament in the world.
The Isle of Man is a Crown dependency. Foreign affairs, defence, and "good government" are handled by the British government, but in all other matters the island is independent. The Isle of Man Government is the executive and proposes laws to the legislature, Tynwald. Laws passed by Tynwald are given royal approval by the Lieutenant Governor unless the British Minister of Justice says they do not help the good government of the island.
The Isle of Man is an island in the Irish Sea, it is northwest of the European continent. It is between the United Kingdom and Ireland. The island is 22 km wide and 52 km long, it has a total area of 572 km². The Isle of Man has a total of 160 km of coastline, it has no important bodies of water. Apart from the island itself, the Isle of Man also includes some nearby islands. The most important of these islands are called Calf of Man, St Patrick's Isle and St Michael's Isle.
The island's terrain is varied, it has mountains in the north and south. A valley is more or less in the center of the island, between the cities of Douglas and Peel. The northern part of the island is very flat. Snaefell is the Isle of Man's highest mountain, it measures 621 meters above sea level. It is said that you can see Scotland, England, Ireland and Wales from the top of mount Snaefell.
The Isle of Man has a usually mild weather. Summers are cool and winters are mild and rainy. Rainfall is similar to that of the other British Isles. Elevated parts of the Isle of Man get more rainfall, especially mount Snaefell. The northern and southern parts of the island are not as rainy as the rest.
The island's weather is normally cool. The highest temperature ever registered is 28.9 °C, in Ronaldsway. The Isle of Man is not very sunny, but it is less cloudy than other parts of the British Isles; strong winds around the island help keep clouds in constant movement.
The geology of Man is notable for the Iapetus Suture, which runs almost unseen right through the rocks of the island. The suture is the remnant of a once huge ocean, the Iapetus Ocean, which was lost about 420 million years ago as three continents came together.
The Isle of Man became separated from Ireland and the British Isles about 8500 years ago. The short period of time between the melting of glaciers and the rise of sea level allowed a small number of species to colonize the island by land. The island was heavily deforested in the Middle Ages, which weakened its environment. Some land is now protected by the government to help preserve its wildlife. Curraghs Wildlife Park, in the wetlands, is home to many species of animals and plants. The island is also home to a large number of bird species.
A lot of the Isle of Man's plant life, or flora, is composed of shrubs (bushes) and other short plants. Several species of grass and moss also live there. Mosses on the island contribute to the formation of peat. There is peat in the island's wet areas. The island has heavily deforested in the Middle Ages. Common trees on the island include ashes, elms, pines, willows, and hawthorns. There are also other trees on the island, as well as many species of flowering plants. Bogs are home to ferns and orchids. 
The Isle of Man is home to a large number of bird and insect species. Many species live in "curraghs" (wetlands in the northeast of the island). Curraghs are protected by the Government of the Isle of Man. Curraghs Wildlife Park is in these wetlands, it is both a zoo and a protected area. During the winter, curraghs are the second largest nesting ground of the Hen Herrier in Europe. The Peregrine Falcon, Merlin, European Robin, Willow Warbler, Song Thrush, Dunnock, Swan and a subspecies of Winter Wren possibly native to the island also nest in the curraghs. The Chough is also in the Isle of Man, it is more common than in other parts of Europe. Some farming methods have decreased the bird population of the island. The Northern Lapwing is now rarely found, and the Yellowhammer is now extinct on the island.
18 species of butterfly and 250 species of moth also live on the Isle of Man. Most of them live in the wetlands during different seasons.

</doc>
<doc id="21250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21250" title="French Revolution">
French Revolution

The French Revolution was a revolution in France from 1789 to 1799. It led to the end of the monarchy, and to many wars. King Louis XVI was executed in 1793. The revolution ended when Napoleon Bonaparte took power in November 1799. In 1804, he became Emperor.
Before 1789, France was ruled by the nobles and the Catholic Church. The ideas of the Enlightenment were beginning to make the ordinary people want more power. They could see that the American Revolution had created a country in which the people had power, instead of a king. The government before the revolution was called the Ancien Regime.
Many problems in France led up to the Revolution:
Before the Revolution, France was divided into three Estates. The First Estate was the Clergy (the church). It made up 1% of the population. The Second Estate was the Nobles , which also made up 1% of the population. The other nearly 98% of the population was in the Third Estate. Representatives of the people from all three estates together made up the Estates-General. 
In May 1789, the Estates-General was called by the King in order to deal with the money problems of the country. They met at the royal Palace of Versailles. However, the members of the Third Estate were angry. They had made lists of problems they wanted to fix called the Cahiers de Doléances.
The members of the Third Estate (The commoners) were angry that they were being taxed the most when they were the poorest group of people. They, and the Director-General of Finances, Jacques Necker, thought the Church and the Nobility ought to be taxed more. 
They also wanted votes in the Estates-General to be fairer. Even though the Third Estate had many more members than the other two Estates, each Estate only had one vote in the Estates-General. The Third Estate thought this could be improved by giving members of the Estates-General a vote each. However, when they talked to the other Estates, they could not agree.
During law formation when elections were held each member of the 1st and 2nd estates got an individual vote where as the entire 3rd estate people were given a single vote. The 3rd estate people were about 90% of the total population.
Since the First and Second Estates would not listen, The Third Estate decided to break away and start their own assembly where every member would get a vote. On 10 June 1789, they started the National Assembly. The king tried to stop them by closing the Salle des États meeting room, but they met in an indoor tennis court instead. On June 20th, they took the Tennis Court Oath, where they promised to work until they had created a new constitution for France.
In July 1789, after the National Assembly was formed, the nobility and the king were angry with Jacques Necker, the Director-General of Finances, and they fired him. Many Parisians thought the King was going to try to shut down the National Assembly. Soon, Paris was filled with riots and looting.
On 14 July 1789, the people decided to attack the Bastille prison. The Bastille contained weapons, as well as being a symbol of the power of the nobility and the rule of the king, the "Ancien Régime". By the afternoon, the people had broken into the Bastille and released the seven prisoners being held there. They killed the Governor of the prison, Bernard de Launay, and put his head on a stick.
The Members of the Third Estate took over Paris. The president of the National Assembly at the time of the Tennis Court Oath, Jean-Sylvain Bailly, became mayor of the city. Jacques Necker was given back his job as Director-General of Finances. Soon, the King visited Paris and wore the red, white and blue (tricolor) ribbons (cockade) that the revolutionaries were wearing. By the end of July, the revolution had spread all over France.
The National Assembly began to make lots of changes. On 4 August, the National Assembly ended the special taxes the Church was collecting, and put a stop to the rights of the Nobility over their people, ending feudalism. On 26 August, the National Assembly published the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which was written by the nobleman Marquis de Lafayette. 
The National Assembly began to decide how it would be under the new constitution. Many members, especially the nobles, wanted a senate or a second upper house. However, more people voted to keep having just one assembly. The King was given a "suspensive veto" over laws, which meant he would only have the power to delay laws being made, not stop them. In October 1789, after being attacked at the Palace of Versailles by a mob of 7,000 women, the King was convinced by Lafayette to move from Paris to the palace in Tuileries.
The Assembly began to divide into different political parties. One was made up of those against the revolution, led by the nobleman Jacques Antoine Marie de Cazales and the churchman Jean-Sifrien Maury. This party sat on the right side. A second party was the Royalist democrats (monarchists) which wanted to create a system like the constitutional monarchy of Britain, where the king would still be a part of the government. Jacques Necker was in this party. The third party was the National Party which was centre or centre-left. This included Honoré Mirabeau and Lafayette. 
Under the new government, the Roman Catholic Church would have much less power than they had before. In 1790, all special taxes and powers of the Church were cancelled. All the Church’s property was taken over by the state. On 12 July 1790, the Civil Constitution of the Clergy made all clergy employees of the state and made them take an oath to the new constitution. Many clergy, as well as the Pope, Pius VI, did not like these changes. Revolutionaries killed hundreds for refusing the oath.
On 14 July 1790, a year since the storming of the Bastille, thousands of people gathered in the Champs de Mars to celebrate. Charles Maurice de Talleyrand led the crowd in a religious mass. The crowd, including the King and the royal family, took an oath of loyalty to “the nation, the law, and the king.” However, many nobles were unhappy with the revolution and were leaving the country. They were called émigrés (emigrants).
Although the members of the Estates-General had only been elected for a year, the members of the Assembly had all taken the Tennis Court Oath. They had promised to keep working until they had a constitution and no constitution had been made. It was decided that the members would keep working until they had a constitution.
The Assembly continued to work on a constitution and make changes. Nobles could no longer pass their titles to their children. Only the king was allowed to do this. For the first time, trials with juries were held. All trade barriers inside France were ended along with unions, guilds, and workers' groups. Strikes were banned. 
Many people with radical ideas began to form political clubs. The most famous of these was the Jacobin Club, which had left-wing ideas. A right-wing club was the Club Monarchique. In 1791, a law was suggested to prevent noble "émigrés" from leaving the country. Mirabeau had been against this law, but he died on 2 April, and by the end of the year, the law was passed.
Louis XVI did not like the revolution, but did not want to get help from other countries or run away from France like the émigrés. General Bouille held the same views and wanted to help the king leave Paris. He said that he would give the King and his family help and support in his camp at Montmédy. The escape was planned for June 20, 1791.
Dressed as servants, the royal family left Paris. However, their escape was not well planned, and they were arrested at Varennes on the evening of June 21. The royal family was brought back to Paris. The Assembly imprisoned Louis and his wife Marie Antoinette, and suspended the king from his duty.
Although the king had tried to escape, most members of the Assembly still wanted to include the king in their government rather than to have a Republic with no king at all. They agreed to make the king a figurehead, with very little power. The king would have to take an oath to the state. If he did not, or if he created an army to attack France, he would no longer be king.
Some people, including Jacques Pierre Brissot, did not like this. They thought the king should be completely removed from the throne and the constitution. Brissot made a petition and a huge crowd came to the Champs de Mars to sign it. Republican leaders Georges Danton and Camille Desmoulins came and gave speeches. 
The National Guard, led by Lafayette, was called in to control the crowd. The mob threw stones at the soldiers who first fired their guns over the heads of the crowd. When the crowd kept throwing stones, Lafayette ordered them to fire at the people. Up to 50 people were killed. After this, the government closed many of the political clubs and newspapers. Many radical left-wing leaders, including Danton and Desmoulins, ran away to England or hid in France.
Finally the constitution was completed. Louis XVI was put back on the throne and came to take his oath to it. He wrote, “I engage to maintain it at home, to defend it from all attacks from abroad, and to cause its execution by all the means it places at my disposal.” The National Assembly decided that it would stop governing France on 29 September 1791. After that date, the Legislative Assembly would take over.
The new Legislative Assembly met for the first time in October 1791. Under the Constitution of 1791, France was a Constitutional Monarchy. The King shared his rule with the Legislative Assembly, but had the power to stop (veto) laws he did not like. He also had the power to choose ministers. 
The Legislative Assembly had about 745 members. 165 of them were “Feuillants”, or Constitutional Monarchists. 330 were Girondins and Jacobins, left-wing liberal republicans who did not want a king. The other 250 members were independent, but they voted most often with the left wing. 
The Legislative Assembly did not agree very well. The King used his veto to stop laws that would sentence émigrés to death. Because so many of the members of the Assembly were left-wing, they did not like this. 
The kings and emperors of many foreign countries were worried by the French Revolution. They did not want revolutions in their own countries. On 27 August 1791, Leopold II of the Holy Roman Empire/Austria, Frederick William II of Prussia, and Louis XVI’s brother-in-law Charles-Philippe wrote the Declaration of Pillnitz. The Declaration asked for Louis XVI to be set free and the National Assembly to be ended. They promised that they would invade France if their requests were ignored. The Declaration was taken very seriously among the revolutionaries.
With the Legislative Assembly in place, the problems did not go away. The Girondins wanted war because they wanted to take the revolution to other countries. The King and many of his supporters, the Feuillants, wanted war because they thought it would make the King more popular. Many French were worried that the émigrés would cause trouble in foreign countries against France.
On 20 April 1792, the Assembly voted to declare war on Austria (Holy Roman Empire). They planned to invade the Austrian Netherlands, but the revolution had made the army weak. Many soldiers deserted. Soon, Prussia joined on the Austrian side. They both planned to invade. Together, on 25 July, they wrote the Brunswick Manifesto, promising that if the royal family was not hurt, no civilians would be hurt in the invasion. The French believed that this meant the king, Louis XVI, was working with the foreign kings. Prussia invaded France on 1 August, 1792. This first stage of the French Revolutionary Wars continued until 1797.
The people were turning against King Louis XVI. On 10 August 1792, the members of a revolutionary group called the Paris Commune attacked the Tuileries, where the King and Queen were living. The King and Queen were taken prisoner. The Legislative Assembly held an emergency meeting. Even though only a third of the members were there and most of them were Jacobins, they suspended the King from duty.
In September, things got worse. The Legislative Assembly had almost no power. No single group was controlling Paris or France. The country was being invaded by the Prussian Army. The revolutionaries were very angry and violent. They began to go into prisons and kill people they thought were traitors to France. They hated the priests of the Roman Catholic Church the most, but they also killed many nobles and ordinary people. By 7 September, 1,400 people were dead.
The Legislative Assembly had lost all its power. France needed a new government. On 20 September 1792, the National Convention was formed. The Convention had both Girondins and radical Jacobins. 
The Brunswick Manifesto had made many people suspicious of the king. They thought he was plotting with the Prussian and Austrian rulers to invade France. In January 1793, the National Convention voted and found Louis XVI guilty of “conspiracy against the public liberty and the general safety.” On the twenty-first of January, the King was executed using the guillotine. Marie Antoinette, the Queen, was also executed on the sixteenth of October.
People in the area of Vendée did not like the revolutionary government. They did not like the rules about the church in the Civil Constitution of the Church (1790) and new taxes put in place in 1793. They also disliked being forced to join the French army. In March, they rose up against the government in a revolt. The war lasted until 1796. Hundreds of thousands of people from Vendée (Vendeans) were killed by the Revolutionary French army.
Now that the king was dead, the National Convention made a new republican constitution that began on 24 June. It was the first one that did not include the king and gave every man in France a vote. However, it never came into power because of the trouble between the Jacobins and Girondins. The war with Austria and Prussia was causing the state to have money problems. Bread was very expensive and many people wanted things to change. In June 1793, the Jacobins began to take power. They wanted to arrest many Girondin members of the National Convention. In July, they became angrier when Charlotte Corday, a Girondin, killed Jean-Paul Marat, a Jacobin. 
By July, the coup was complete. The Jacobins had taken power. They put in new, radical laws including a new Republican Calendar with new months and new ten-day weeks. They made the army bigger and changed the officers to people who were better soldiers. Over the next few years, this helped the Republican army push back the attacking Austrians, Prussians, British, and Spanish.
In July 1793, a Jacobin called Maximilien de Robespierre and eight other leading Jacobins set up the Committee of Public Safety. It was the most powerful group in France. This group and Robespierre were responsible for the Reign of Terror. Robespierre believed that if people were afraid, the revolution would go better. The Reign of Terror lasted from the spring of 1793 to the spring of 1794. 
It was not only the nobility who died in the Reign of Terror. Anyone who broke the Jacobins' laws, or was even suspected of breaking their laws or working against them, could be arrested and sent to the guillotine, most without a trial. Even powerful people who had been involved in the Jacobin coup were executed. Prisoners were taken from the prisons to “Madame Guillotine” (a nickname for the guillotine) in an open wooden cart called the tumbrel. 
According to records, 16,594 people were executed with the guillotine. It is possible that up to 40,000 people died in prison or were killed during the Reign of Terror.
By July 1794, people began to turn against Maximilien de Robespierre. He and his Revolutionary Tribunal had killed 1,300 people in six weeks. On 27 July, the National Convention and the Committee of Public Safety turned against him. Robespierre tried to get help from the Convention’s right-wing members, but he failed. 
A day later, Robespierre and many of his supporters in the Paris Commune were sentenced to death by guillotine without any kind of trial. This reaction against Robespierre is called the Thermidorian Reaction.
Now that the terror was over, the National Convention started to make a new Constitution, called the Constitution of the Year III. On 27 September 1794, the constitution came into effect.
The new constitution had created the Directoire (Directory), which was the first government of France to be bicameral (split into two houses). The lower house, the parliament, had 500 members. It was called the "Conseil de Cinq-Cent" (Council of Five Hundred). The upper house, the senate, had 250 members and was called the "Conseil des Anciens" (Council of Elders). There were five directors chosen every year by the "Conseil des Anciens" from a list made up by the "Conseil de Cinq-Cent". This group was in charge and was called the Directory.
Although the constitution of 1793 had given all men in France a vote, in this constitution only people with a certain amount of property could vote.
The Directory was much more conservative than the governments in France since 1789. The people were tired of radical changes and the unstable governments. Things were much more stable under the Directory than they had been before.
However, the Directors were disliked by the people - especially the Jacobins, who wanted a republic, and the royalists, who wanted a new King. France’s money problems did not go away. The Directors ignored elections that did not go the way they wanted. They ignored the constitution in order to do things to control the people. They used the ongoing war and the army to keep their power.
People rioted against the Directory, but the Directory used the army to stop them. The army, under the Corsican general Napoleon Bonaparte, became much more powerful. On 9 November 1799 (18 Brumaire Year VIII), Bonaparte took power. This event is called 18 Brumaire. Napoleon Bonaparte set up a new government called the Consulate with him in power. This led to him becoming the dictator and, in 1804, the Emperor of France.
The 18 Brumaire marks the end of the Republican part of the French Revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="21252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21252" title="Daffy Duck">
Daffy Duck

Daffy Duck is a cartoon character from the Warner Bros. cartoons. He stands on two legs, has a black body, a white ring about his neck, and an orange beak. He first appeared in "Porky´s Duck Hunt" in 1937.

</doc>
<doc id="21253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21253" title="1650s">
1650s


</doc>
<doc id="21256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21256" title="Guillotine">
Guillotine

The guillotine is a machine used to execute people by decapitation (chopping off their heads). 
A guillotine is made of a heavy blade attached to a rack, which moves up and down on a vertical frame. When the rack is let go, it will fall down and the blade will cut the convict's head off. 
Machines like the guillotine were first invented in the Middle Ages, and were used throughout Europe. For example, Scotland used a machine called the "Scottish Maiden".
The first time the guillotine was commonly used was in France, in the French Revolution of 1789. The guillotine became the only legal way to execute someone in France. The guillotine was used because it caused a quick death. Everyone died the same way, no matter what social class you were in, whether you were wealthy or poor. 
The guillotine was commonly used in France (including France's colonies), Switzerland, Italy, Belgium, Germany, and Austria. It was also used in Sweden. Today, all of these countries have abolished (legally stopped) the death penalty. The guillotine is no longer used.
The guillotine is named after a French medical doctor, Joseph Ignace Guillotin. Guillotin was against the death penalty. Realising he could not stop the death penalty, Guillotin instead tried to think of a quicker, less painful way of executing people. On October 10, 1789, he suggested using a machine to do all the executions. 
The actual guillotine was designed by another doctor, Antoine Louis. Guillotin did not help much with the design, but his name went down in history. Against Guillotin's wishes, the new machine quickly became known as the "Guillotine". Guillotin regretted this until death in 1814.
The design for a quick, painless, decapitation machine was given to Tobias Schmidt, a German engineer. Schmidt built the first guillotine and tested it, on animals at first, but later on dead humans. It was made of two fourteen-foot uprights joined by a crossbar, whose inside edges were grooved and greased with tallow; the weighted blade was either straight, or curved like an axe. The system was started by a rope and pulley, while the whole construction was set up on a platform.
The guillotine was still the only legal way to execute a person in France until 1979, when France stopped using the death penalty. In Nazi Germany, the guillotine was used to kill prisoners sentenced for serious crimes like murder, treason, or conspiracy against the government. 
A guillotine was last used in West Germany in 1949 and East Germany in 1961. The last person guillotined was the Tunisian murderer Hamida Djandoubi in 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="21268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21268" title="Wikipedia:Schools/Teachers' Guide">
Wikipedia:Schools/Teachers' Guide

This page tries to answer the main questions teachers may have about Wikipedia. It also suggests a good way of starting to use the Simple English Wikipedia in the classroom. If you don't know much about Wikipedia, read for a basic introduction.
Wikipedia aims to be the ultimate learning resource, the sum of all human knowledge. Yet a lot of students may have difficulty understanding the complex language used by the . They may need a simpler version, which is easier to understand and which should still give them the information they need. The Simple English Wikipedia is an encyclopedia to help make this happen, to give students and learners of English a simple, free resource.
Ideas such as open source, copyleft, collaborative writing, and volunteer contributions for the public good, are sometimes new and unusual ideas in educational settings. Wikipedia offers a chance for educators to explore concepts of public trust which are likely to continue growing in importance during the lives of today's record population of youth.
Generally, yes, Wikipedia is accurate. Wikipedia is developing rapidly, the reliability of the encyclopedia is improving all the time. Because readers compare articles to what they already know, articles tend to become more accurate and detailed. Certain articles about many of the major sciences were developed from other free or public domain encyclopedias. This provides a reliable basis upon which encyclopedia writers can develop more current information. Wikipedia is cited almost daily in the press.
On the other hand, it is possible for an article on Wikipedia to be biased, outdated, or factually incorrect. This is true for any resource. One should always double-check the accuracy of important facts, regardless of the source. In general, popular articles are more accurate because they are read more often. For this reason, factual errors are spotted and corrected in a more timely fashion. In particular, there may be a Western bias since that is where most contributors are from.
Nothing. Anyone can, at this very moment, go to almost any page and change the information to make it misleading or wrong. Very specific minor facts, like an exact date for a not very important historical detail, are less trustworthy since vandals sometimes change them.
However, it probably will not stay that way very long. Many contributors watch the list of changes (particularly to important or controversial articles), and will quickly delete nonsense or obviously wrong articles, and undo baseless edits. Many users watch Wikipedia's recent changes, particularly for those from anonymous users, and major articles are usually on several individuals' personal watch lists as well. If an anonymous or relatively new user changes a number or a date by a little bit, without justifying their edit, it is particularly likely to raise a red flag.
But Wikipedia cannot be perfect. There is almost certainly inaccurate information in it, somewhere, which has not yet been discovered to be wrong. Therefore, if you are using Wikipedia for important research or a school project, you should always verify the information somewhere else — just like you should with all sources.
Wikipedia can be an excellent starting place for further research. Teachers might ask students what they did to validate the information they learned from Wikipedia. Using a comprehensive search engine such as Google, students can easily compare Wikipedia content with information from other reputable websites. Students can compare information in Wikipedia with information in other encyclopedias or books. In addition, most of our better articles have sections such as "References," "Sources," "Notes," "Further reading," or "Other web sites," which generally contain information about sources.
For purposes of establishing authorship and finding more sources, students may also find the articles' "History" tabs useful, as these detail every contribution — the contributor and what he or she contributed. All of our registered contributors have Talk pages for leaving them notes and many can be contacted through a form on this website by other registered users, including students, if they choose to register. A toolbox link ("E-mail this user") is also visible on user pages while logged in.
Wikipedia is as safe as most interactive online environments. Participation in Wikipedia is probably safe for youths who know basic Internet safety practices. Wikipedia is not a social organization, and provides few opportunities for casual social interaction. Because other editors routinely monitor Wikipedia, inappropriate activity is quickly noticed and stopped.
However, Wikipedia is not censored. It contains articles on subjects such as racial slurs, or sexual acts. It also contains pages on political or religious groups and movements, which may be seen as controversial by certain people or groups of people. Pages which are normally appropriate for children to use are occasionally vandalized with rude words or content which may be offensive. Vandalism is normally noticed and removed within short time periods. but it is still possible that a person may access a page before this is dealt with. Teachers should supervise young children on Wikipedia, as they would in any other online environment. 
However, a children's charity and the Wikimedia Foundation have produced a static safe selection from Wikipedia aimed at UK School children: see 
Open-source media is a kind of information produced by open groups of developers in which anybody who wants to can use the information. Open-source production emerged among software engineers with the production of GNU/Linux, an open-source computer operating system. MediaWiki is an open source software package that supports an open source encyclopedia.
Open-source production relies on qualified users to maintain a constantly improving collection, whether it is an open collection of computer code or of encyclopedic information. Open source collections typically maintain back-up resources, so if a developer accidentally damages the code or the content, it can easily be reverted to an earlier, stable version. The same backup system provides protection against malicious damage to an open-source project. 
Few surveys have developed reliable answers to why people contribute to open source works like Wikipedia. Some sort of public interest or community spirit is often part of the motive. Open-source projects offer an opportunity to contribute to something that has lasting value and that will continue to grow. Open-source publishing allows writers and software developers to apply their skills outside of a strictly business environment. Casual writers and editors sometimes participate as a hobby or as a learning experience.
Wikipedia is relatively new, but becoming more famous. Wikipedia's rapid growth has been reported in many prominent media outlets. Wikipedia was established in January 2001, and has become an important part of the world's collection of knowledge. As the encyclopedia grows, more people learn about it every day, much in the same way Internet use grew in the late 1990s.
Many other online encyclopedias simply copy (parts of) Wikipedia, which is allowed because the content is licensed under a . The page should say it's from Wikipedia, but the message can be hard to notice. So, you may have seen a Wikipedia article without knowing it. Wikipedia grows quickly, and these copies are often out of date.
Wikipedia does not advertise as many services do, so people mostly learn about Wikipedia from their friends, or while browsing online, or from news reports.
Most young people will likely at some point become involved in interactive online activities. For educators, youths' involvement with Wikipedia provides an opportunity to survey youths' understanding of online safety, and to teach appropriate practices. Educators can use Wikipedia as a way of teaching students to develop hierarchies of credibility that are essential for navigating and conducting research on the Internet.
Wikipedia provides an opportunity for teachers to discuss the concept of the public domain. Wikipedia is an opportunity to take part in an open community that relies primarily on mutual respect and cooperation, but which is not related to familiar authority figures some young people might tend to oppose.
Editing in Wikipedia is an opportunity to learn to participate in collective editorial processes. Wikipedia presents a ready opportunity for youths to research, compile and publish articles for peer review. For young people who contribute images, selection and production of an image provides opportunities to learn what a market wants from an artist. Young people who master skills for accurate writing and drawing about encyclopedic subjects are better equipped to develop their own style in more creative genres.
Because all articles in Wikipedia must conform to , students taking part in collaborative editing activities on Wikipedia are building experience in detecting and eliminating bias in writing.
There are two ways you can give your students access to Wikipedia:
This allows students to access and edit Wikipedia without a username. This can increase the risk of the IP address being blocked. As many schools share the same IP address, this would most likely stop every student in the school from editing until the block expires.
This gives less control over edits made by students, but each student's contribution is easily identified. Although this will most likely avoid school-wide blocks, it is difficult to watch all of your students' contributions and check for offensive content. It is recommended that if this method is used, the students all have usernames that can be easily identified as part of the group. To prevent spamming, there is also a limit on the number of accounts that can be created in one day, which is six. It is best to request an to create accounts for your group, as they can override these limits and alert the others that a school project is in process. Post your request at .
Please let the administrators know about the planned date and time of your activity, and the usernames/IP you will be using. Hopefully, admins will then be available to provide assistance to you and your students.
Make sure all students take the five minute . This will give them a basic introduction to the concepts of Wikipedia and how to edit.
After the tutorial, you could let students try out their editing in the before giving them their project or tasks. This helps to cut down on the work for other contributors (or you) removing the nonsense that your students will inevitably put on articles to test out their new skills. Remember: testing is fine, is not.
You decide! There are hundreds of possible projects and tasks students can complete on Wikipedia.
To check what your students are submitting on a class username, click the "" link in the upper-right corner of your screen. This will show all contributions under that username. Click (diff) next to an item to see what changes have been made.
If you find any inappropriate edits by your students, you need to revert it as quickly as possible. To do this from the revision differences page, click the link to the previous version of the page, which will probably look something like 'Revision as of , '. You will be taken to the older version of the page. Click the 'change this page' link. Make no changes, but place 'rvt - TEACHER' in the edit summary box.
When you save the page, the edits will be overwritten. You can then warn students about vandalism and how it could lead to blocking - ruining the entire class's projects may put off the vandalizing student.
Most members of Wikipedia will be willing to help you if you ever have any problems, just leave a note on their talk page. If you require an administrator for more advanced operations such as edit deletion, see .
On the error page you see if you try to edit a page, you will see the administrator who blocked your username/IP address. You can then appeal to this administrator to be unblocked. Remember: being a school user does not grant you unlimited rights. In other words, if your class (or you!) vandalise a large amount of pages, you will be blocked and have no priority for unblocking. It is up to you to maintain control of your students - Wikipedia administrators must protect the encyclopedia.
Just add to the top of the page. Replace 'useless page' with another reason if you think it is not appropriate. This adds the page to the list of pages to be deleted. An administrator will then be able to delete this page.
Try the . If you have a specific question, leave it on . If you want to know more about Wikipedia, read . Be familiar with the . Happy editing!

</doc>
<doc id="21273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21273" title="School uniform">
School uniform

A school uniform is a standard set of clothing people (usually children) wear when they go to school. It might have a particular color of trousers or skirt, plus a matching shirt and perhaps a jacket or necktie, with matching shoes.
In some countries, like Germany, students can wear anything they like when they go to school. In other countries, like England, there is usually a standard dress code in school, usually a set of dressing for girls and one for boys. Boys and girls need to wear "school uniforms" when they go to school. In many countries, such as the United States, some schools require wearing a uniform, and some do not.
Originally, school uniforms were introduced to hide the social differences between students, but uniforms can also help with safety. Using standard uniforms can also save the money needed to buy extra clothes as fashion to impress other people at school. Uniforms can reduce the conspicuous consumption of rich people, who get costly items, which show how much more wealth they have than other people.
However, school uniforms can also help with health and safety by having clothes which have been tested to be safer when worn. Some fabrics can cause skin rashes in some people, while a uniform can be made of comfortable fabrics. Also, loose-fitting clothes can get caught in machinery or playground equipment, which limits what activities children can do safely.
There are several types of economic bullying which can be lessened by use of school uniforms. When many students are from families with less money, sometimes students with more money have been called "goody two shoes" because they wore newer shoes, where neither shoe was in poor shape. In schools where more students are rich, poorer students have been insulted for the old-style or tattered clothes they wore.
Some children do not like uniforms because they are told what to wear.

</doc>
<doc id="21274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21274" title="Category:Primates">
Category:Primates

These articles are about primates, the animals of the order Primates.

</doc>
<doc id="21275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21275" title="Category:Humans">
Category:Humans


</doc>
<doc id="21276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21276" title="Primate">
Primate

Primates are a group of mammals that contains all lemurs, monkeys and apes including humans.
There are about 400 species of primates. All primates are similar to humans in some ways, but language is an important difference. Primates have hands with five fingers and flat fingernails (most other animals have claws). Primates are split into two groups: Strepsirrhini and Haplorhini. Haplorrhini includes monkeys, tarsiers and apes including humans. Strepsirrhini includes lemurs, lorises, galagos (also called bush babies) and the Aye-Aye.
Primates are one of the few eutherian groups which re-evolved full colour vision.

</doc>
<doc id="21281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21281" title="Tropic of Cancer">
Tropic of Cancer

The Tropic of Cancer ("cancer" (♋) is Latin for crab) is one of the five major circles of latitude (imaginary lines around the Earth) that are often marked on maps of the Earth. This is the parallel of latitude that is 23° 26' 22" north of the Equator.

</doc>
<doc id="21284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21284" title="Equinox">
Equinox

An equinox is when the sun passes directly over the equator. There are two equinoxes each year. Equinox can also mean either of the two days when this happens. On these days, the nights are equal in length at latitudes L° North and L° South. The word "equinox" comes from two Latin words meaning "equal" and "night". 
Around the day of the equinox, the length of the day is a little over twelve hours and the length of the night is a little under twelve hours. They are not exactly equal because the sun is not a point in the sky and because the sunlight bends as it comes to earth. The exact day and time when this happens depend on how far away from the equator it is being measured. They occur on or around March 21 and September 21. Solstices fall around June 21st and December 21st at odd intervals.
The equinoxes are the beginning of spring, and autumn (or "fall" in the US).
The time of daylight is quite easy to measure. This was done in many cultures where festivals were celebrated at the equinoxes.

</doc>
<doc id="21286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21286" title="Teufelsbrücke">
Teufelsbrücke

The Teufelsbrücke (bridge of the devil) is a bridge over the river Reuss in the Swiss canton of Uri.
The valley called "Schöllenenschlucht" is an important access route to the St.Gotthard alpine pass. However, the valley is very narrow, featuring a dangerous river Reuss. 
The first bridge across the river was built in 1230. This was a wooden bridge. This meant that due to bad weather it had to be replaced often. 
In the 16th century, it was replaced by a bridge of stone. That stone bridge was heavily damaged in the Napoleonic wars in 1799. Nobody could use the bridge because of the damage. Trade with Italy was done over the alpine pass at Splügen.
The first bridge was completely destroyed in a stormy night in 1888.
Only in 1820 could the order to build a new bridge be given. The construction of the bridge took 10 years.
In the middle of the 20th century, the second bridge was no longer able to handle the traffic. A third bridge, featuring two lanes, one for each direction, was built in 1958.
Building the first bridge was very hard. According to a local myth, the first bridge was built by the devil himself. The condition attached was that the devil should get the soul of the first to pass over the bridge. So, when the bridge was finished, people chased a goat over the bridge. Of course, the devil was furious, so he went to pick up a large stone (called "Teufelsstein", the devil's stone). He wanted to smash the bridge he just built to pieces. On his way to the ridge however, he encountered an old believing woman with a cross. Scared of the cross, he left the stone, and fled.
The devil's stone weighs 2000 tons. 300.000 Swiss Francs were used in 1977 to shift the stone 127 meters to make way for the motorway passing over the St.Gotthard pass.
Popular belief has it that the moving of the stone was the cause of an increased number of accidents on kilometre 16 on the St. Gotthard road tunnel.

</doc>
<doc id="21289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21289" title="Grandparent">
Grandparent

The term grandparent means the parents of a person's father or mother. s have always been important members of a family. The role of a parent is often very different from the role of a grandparent. Parents are the providers and disciplinarians of their children. Grandparents are often much freer to enjoy and have fun with their grandchildren. A grandparent-grandchild relationship is usually much simpler than that of a parent and child.
The term 'grandparent' is used for both male and female genders. The male grandparent is called a grandfather. The female grandparent is a grandmother. When looking at the relationship from the point of view of the grandparent, the term grandchild is used. A grandchild is the child of a person's child. It can also be used based on gender. Grandchild is correct for either gender. Grandson is male. Granddaughter is female. 
For example: Bob has a son named Rick. Rick, in turn, has 2 children; a boy (Bill) and a girl (Mary). Bob is the grandfather (male grandparent) of both Bill and Mary. Bill is the grandson (male grandchild) of Bob, and Mary is the granddaughter (female grandchild) of Bob. Rick's mother would be the grandmother (female grandparent) of both Mary and Bill.
There are a number of nicknames for a person's grandparents. These include 'grandpa', 'grandpapa', 'papa' and 'pawpa' for a grandfather. Nicknames for grandmothers include 'grandma', 'grammy', 'granny', and 'nanna'. There are also many unique nicknames. An example is American actress Goldie Hawn who did not want to be called 'grandma', instead came up with the nickname 'Glamma.'
Traditionally, grandparents were highly respected in most cultures. Today many grandparent-grandchild relationships are declining. Much of the modern world does not value older people the way societies did in the past. Also, popular entertainment, especially programs and movies aimed at 'tweens' (children 10 to 12 years old) portray adults as being foolish. This makes the involvement of grandparents more important than ever. 
A person's great-grandparent's "parents" would be that person's "great-great-grandparents". Commonly the prefix "great-" is added, one for each additional generation. To avoid having to add several "greats" when discussing a direct ancestors, ordinals are commonly used instead. For example, a "great-great-grandfather" would be a "second great-grandfather". A "great-great-great-grandfather" would be a third great-grandfather, and so on. Some sources also use cardinal numbers for numbering greats. For example, a great-great-great-great-great-great-grandmother becomes "six times great grandmother". However, sixth great-grandmother would be most commonly used.
Not counting the individual person in the relationship, a parent is the first generation of the person's ancestors. A grandparent is the second generation (from the individual). A great-grandparent would be the third generation and so a great-great grandparent would be in the fourth generation of ancestors, and so on. Another way of putting it is a person's second great-grandparent is a grandparent's grandparent.
In the past, many great-grandparents died long before their great-grandchildren were born. Today, people in many societies are living longer. This means many children get to know at least one of their great-grandparents.
The word 'family' is often used to mean the same as the term Nuclear family. Strictly speaking, a nuclear family is made up of a husband, a wife, and their children. It may also be used to include a stepparent, stepchildren or adopted children. However, the latter family unit is more commonly called a blended family. Close kin however extends the family unit. For example, second cousins are all descendants of one or both great-grandparents. Family units extending to second cousins are considered close kin. So the term includes great-grandparents as well. Third cousins (all those descended from second great-grandparents) are not considered close kin, but just family.
A person's ancestor tree is a binary tree. It is formed by the person, the parents (2), the grandparents (4), great-grandparents (8), and so on. With each increasing generation of great-grandparents the number doubles. In other words a person's sixth great grandparents (great-great-great-great-great-great-grandparents) would number 256 or formula_1 (2 to the 8th power). However, the number of individuals in such a tree grows exponentially and will eventually become impossibly high. For example, a single individual alive today would, over 30 generations going back to the High Middle Ages, have about formula_2 generations or just over a billion ancestors. That would be far more than the total world population at the time. 
This paradox or impossible situation, is explained by having shared ancestors, which is called pedigree collapse. Instead of every person today having a family tree of all unique ancestors, many of these ancestors occupy more than one position in the pedigree. In other words, one's 15th great-grandfather may have been their 15th great-grandfather more than once if the person today is descended from children of both or all of his marriages. So in a typical family tree, the same ancestor may pop up in more than one place in the pedigree. Pedigree collapse is generally caused by close relatives marrying in the past, which was common in many societies. Even today, because most people do not know their ancestry beyond their grandparents, they are inadvertently marrying their own distant cousins. On average, a typical European marriage today is between sixth cousins (those descended from a common sixth great-grandparent). In closed societies the relationship is usually much closer.

</doc>
<doc id="21293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21293" title="1630s">
1630s


</doc>
<doc id="21301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21301" title="Lepton">
Lepton

Leptons are elementary particles with spin 1/2 (a fermion) that are not affected by strong nuclear force. They are a family of particles that are different from the other known family of fermions, the quarks.
Electrons are a well-known example that are found in ordinary matter. There are six leptons: the electron, muon, and tau particles and their associated neutrinos. The different varieties of the elementary particles are commonly called "flavors", and the neutrinos here are considered to have distinctly different flavor. Of the six leptons, three have electric charge and three do not. The best known charged lepton is the electron (e). The other two charged leptons are the muon (µ) and the tau (τ), which are like electrons but much bigger. The charged leptons are all negative particles, their "antiparticles" are positively charged (for example, the antiparticle of the electron, e, is a positron, e). 
The superparticle of a lepton is called a "slepton."

</doc>
<doc id="21309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21309" title="1620s">
1620s


</doc>
<doc id="21312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21312" title="Jersey">
Jersey

Jersey is an island off the northwest coast of France. It is a crown dependency of the British monarchy. Jersey is called a "bailiwick" because the person who is the head of law for the island is called the "Bailiff". The Bailiwick of Jersey also includes the islands of the Minquiers and Ecréhous, where nobody lives. The other islands of the Channel Islands belong to the Bailiwick of Guernsey. The country code (also used for internet) is JE.
Over ninety-seven thousand people live on the main island. Thirty per cent of them live in its only town, Saint Helier.
Along with English and French, more than two thousand people speak Jèrriais, a dialectal form of the Norman language.
The Bailiwick of Jersey is not a part of the United Kingdom or of the European Union. It has its own parliament called the "States of Jersey" which passes laws for the island.
"Jersey" is divided into 12 parishes which elect their own administration.

</doc>
<doc id="21323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21323" title="East Timor">
East Timor

The Democratic Republic of East Timor or Timor Leste is a country in Southeast Asia. It is on the eastern side of the island of Timor, and also the smaller islands of Atauro and Jaco, and a small area, named Oecussi-Ambeno, inside the west side of Timor. That area is an exclave, which means it is separated from the main part of the country by part of another country. That other country is Indonesia.
The capital and largest city, Dili, is home to one hundred and fifty thousand people. The next largest city is Baucau. (see List of settlements in East Timor).
East Timor gets its name from the Malay word for "east", "timur".
It is a member of the United Nations and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries.
For a long time, Portugal controlled the East Timor and called it the Colony of Portuguese Timor. In 1975, the Portuguese army left, and East Timor was invaded (taken over) by the Indonesian army in 1975. The invasion was very violent. The army stayed there until 1999, when they gave up control of the territory with the help of the United Nations.
At the time, the United States government said it did not know Indonesia was going to invade East Timor. But secret documents, released from 2002 to 2005, show that Henry Kissinger, the Secretary of State of the United States, did know, and supported the invasion.
When it got its independence on 20 May 2002, it became the first country to become independent in the twenty-first century (since the year 2001). In 2006, when Montenegro became independent, East Timor was no longer the newest one.
Since then, East Timor has not been given much attention in the news. Recently, the Colombian music artist Shakira made a song named "Timor", which talks about the country. The attention is because there has been fighting in East Timor between gangs (groups of criminals with guns), security forces (the country's army). Australia, a large nearby country, sent troops in to make peace.
East Timor is a small country located between Australia and Indonesia, 3,000 years ago, East Timor was a mountainous island composed of migrant indigenous people from New Guinea, Australia and Melanesia.
There were some migrants from Austronesia searching for a new life on this island. Some of the people arrived from South China and North Indochina looking for trade because East Timor had resources which could be exported, like sandalwood, honey, slaves and wax.
During the Second World War, the Japanese occupied the region, encountered strong resistance to their attempts to force the population to grow foods for their troops and export. At the time 30% of the population died.
On 25 April 1974, the Portuguese Armed Forces headed by General António de Spínola organized a Military Coup against Salazar’s regime called the Revolution of Carnations. After this revolution, Portugal decided to give freedom to the colonized countries.
East Timor is the largest of the Lesser Sunda Islands. To the north of the island are the Ombai Strait, Wetar Strait, and the greater Banda Sea. To the south the Timor Sea separates the island from Australia. 
The country has many mountains. Its highest point is Tatamailau (also known as Mount Ramelau) at . The climate is tropical and generally hot and humid.
The Nino Konis Santana National Park is on the eastern tip of the island. The park includes coral reefs, coastal area, and mountains.
East Timor is divided into 13 districts:

</doc>
<doc id="21325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21325" title="Country music">
Country music

Country music (sometimes called Country & Western) is a form of music that has been enjoyed by people all over the United States for decades. Famous singers from this genre include Johnny Cash, Patsy Cline, the Judds, Dolly Parton, Glen Campbell, George Jones and Tammy Wynette, Kenny Rogers, Loretta Lynn, Randy Travis, Tanya Tucker, Willie Nelson, Reba McEntire, Garth Brooks and Toby Keith.
Country music's strongest appeal is with American rural and small-town populations, but many American cities have a large audience. The music also has listeners in Canada, in England, and worldwide. The popularity of Country comes and goes with each decade. Sometimes a new movie (like "Midnight Cowboy" or "Urban Cowboy"), hit record (like "She Believes In Me" by Kenny Rogers), or new performer (like Randy Travis in the 1980s) raises new interest.
Country music has its roots and beginnings in folk music. The old cowboy and pioneer songs of the American frontier were popular in the early twentieth century, and so were arrangements of pop music songs by rural (or rural-sounding) performers. Country musicians also adapted new musical instruments, like the Hawaiian steel guitar.
Modern-day Country music started in the years after World War II. The Sons of the Pioneers and The Carter Family performed old and new songs, in a way that reminded people of singalongs and jamborees of the past. Hank Williams is often called the first songwriter of country music. His songs were easy to learn and remember, and their lyrics said things felt by many people. His music is still performed today. Some of the early rock and roll musicians, like Buddy Holly, Jerry Lee Lewis, and Elvis Presley, began as country performers.
Nashville, Tennessee became the center of Country music, much like New Orleans became the center of Jazz. The Grand Ole Opry broadcast performances by The Carter Family and others, and became an important breaking ground in Country music. A television series, "Hee-Haw", was a long-running showcase for Country performers, and was hosted by musicians Buck Owens and Roy Clark. When cable television became popular in the United States, The Nashville Network (TNN) and Country Music Television (CMT) brought Country music videos and related programming to nationwide audiences. (In later years, as interests changed, TNN changed its programming. It also changed names, first to "The National Network", then to Spike TV, which is its name today.) Country music began in the Southern United States at 1920. And Bob Wills had developed the Western Swing.
Country-styled comedy is also popular, with writers and performers like Jeff Foxworthy, Bill Engvall, Larry the Cable Guy, and others. Many comedians have appeared with Country acts, including Andy Griffith, Ray Stevens, and George Lindsey. Lindsey, Lulu Roman and Junior Samples were cast members of "Hee-Haw", and so were Grandpa Jones and Minnie Pearl. Homer and Jethro and Pinkard & Bowden were duos of musicians who made parodies of Country and pop songs.
"The Beverly Hillbillies", a CBS television series, included music by Flatt and Scruggs. Members of the cast appeared in character at Country concerts, and on other television shows, to entertain audiences.

</doc>
<doc id="21326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21326" title="1690s">
1690s


</doc>
<doc id="21327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21327" title="Tootsie">
Tootsie

Tootsie is a 1982 American romantic comedy-drama movie from Columbia Pictures. It stars Dustin Hoffman as a struggling actor, who dresses as a woman and soon has a role in a soap opera.
In 1998 the United States Library of Congress chose the movie to keep in the National Film Registry. 
The theme song to the movie, "It Might Be You", was a Top 40 hit in the U.S., and also hit #1 on the U.S. adult contemporary chart. Stephen Bishop sang the song and the music was by Dave Grusin / Marilyn and Alan Bergman.
The movie was nominated for ten Academy Awards. Lange was the only winner, for Best Actress in a Supporting Role.
The nominations were:
The movie was number two in the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list in 2000.
It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Adapted Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="21338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21338" title="Lynyrd Skynyrd">
Lynyrd Skynyrd

Lynyrd Skynyrd is an American southern rock band from Jacksonville, Florida. Their name comes from one of their school teachers who was named Leonard Skinner. They wrote songs including: "Sweet Home, Alabama", "Simple Man" and "Freebird." The lead singer's name was Ronnie Van Zant. After Ronnie died, his brother Johnny Van Zant became lead singer.

</doc>
<doc id="21339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21339" title="Peter Handke">
Peter Handke

Peter Handke (born December 6, 1942 in Griffen (Carinthia)) is an Austrian author and translator of books.
Peter Handke is known for his extremely critical (and perhaps even absurd) plays. Perhaps his best-known play is called "Publikumsbeschimpfung" (translates roughly as "insulting /offending the audience"). The play consists of actors insulting and offending the audience, and later congratulating them for the good performance.
The play has been labelled as "antitheater".

</doc>
<doc id="21340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21340" title="IDD">
IDD

IDD is an abbreviation that could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342" title="Density">
Density

Density is a measurement that compares the amount of matter an object has to its volume. An object with a lot of matter in a certain amount of volume has high density. An object with a little matter in the same amount of volume has a low density.
Temperature has an effect on density. When the temperature of a substance increases, density decreases because the atoms are moving all around the place having less matter in one space. When the temperature of a substance decreases, the density increases because the atoms move slower making the atoms stay in one place. Many substances follow this rule, but there are exceptions. Water is one such exception. When water freezes, it makes ice that is less dense than liquid water.
Fresh water is often used as a standard of relative density. This is called specific gravity.
The most common SI units for density are g/cm and kg/m. When the numerator is much larger than the denominator, that means the substance has a higher density. When the denominator is much larger than the numerator, the substance has a lower density. 
A formula to find out density is:
Sometimes scientists use the idea of density to talk about other properties instead of mass. They're trying to describe how much of a property can be found in a specific piece of what they are looking at. For example, "population density" is how many people live within the same amount of space. The population density in the city is higher than the country side because there are more people living closer to each other in the city. In computers, "storage density" is how much data can fit on a data storage device in relation to its physical size. A Blu-ray disc has a higher storage density than a DVD which has a higher storage density than a CD, even though they all have almost exactly the same volume.
"(p"=m/V)

</doc>
<doc id="21343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21343" title="Gram">
Gram

A gram is a unit of measure part of the metric system. It measures mass, or how much matter is in something. The symbol g often means the gram. One gram used to be defined as the mass of one cubic centimeter of pure water at 3.98 degrees Celsius. Now one gram is defined as 1/1000 kilogram. A milligram is 1/1000 of a gram.

</doc>
<doc id="21348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21348" title="Longitude">
Longitude

Longitude is a way to say where a place is on the Earth. It is measured starting from an imaginary north-south line called the Prime Meridian. (A meridian is an imaginary line drawn from the North Pole to the South Pole.) Longitude says how far east or west of the Prime Meridian any place is.
Longitude is measured using degrees, the same way an angle is. The Prime Meridian is 0° (zero degrees), and the farthest away is +180° eastward and -180° westward. Unlike latitude, which has the equator as a natural starting position, there is no natural starting position for longitude. Other meridians have been used in the past, but most scientists now agree to use the Prime Meridian.
For centuries navigators at sea were seldom able to know their longitude. The problem was solved in the early 19th century.
Longitude, as opposed to latitude does not maintain a constant distance between degrees since the primary measurement is time, not distance. This means if you are near the North Pole, you can gain many degrees of longitude West by travelling a relatively short distance.

</doc>
<doc id="21349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21349" title="Category:1989 movies">
Category:1989 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="21354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21354" title="Hilary Duff">
Hilary Duff

Hilary Erhard Duff (often mistakenly spelled as Hillary Duff) (born September 28, 1987) is an American actress and singer. She got famous by being in the adult industry, with films such as "Lizzie McGuire". Since then, she has gone onto a movie career, with roles in mainstream pictures. Among the movies she plays in are "Cheaper by the Dozen", "The Perfect Man", "A Cinderella Story", "Raise Your Voice", "Material Girls" and independent movies such as "War, Inc." and "Greta". Duff has also ventured into a music career as a pop musician, releasing 8 albums (for example "Most Wanted", "Dignity", "Metamorphosis", "Hilary Duff") and 15 music videos (for example "Reach Out", "With Love", "Stranger", "Wake Up", "So Yesterday", "Come Clean"). Lately she has also ventured into a fashion career as a designer for DKNY, with her new line "Femme for DKNY".

</doc>
<doc id="21356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356" title="Oil platform">
Oil platform

An oil platform is a large structure placed in the sea. It is used to drill for oil or natural gas at the bottom of the sea. The platform may be attached to the sea floor (stationary)or it might be movable(mobile).
In general, oil platforms are located on the continental shelf. As of 2006, drilling for resources up to 8km away from the platform was possible.

</doc>
<doc id="21357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21357" title="Continental shelf">
Continental shelf

A continental shelf is the part of the continent that is under water. The shelf was part of the land during the ice ages in the glacial periods, but under water in the interglacial periods. We are at present in an interglacial period.
Every continent is in the sea, like an island. Most of the island is above the water line, and we see it as a continent. Some of it though, is below the water line. Beyond the continental shelf, the bottom goes down to much greater depths.
The continental shelf is a shallow ocean. It varies in depth, up to 140 metres deep. It varies greatly in its width. At the leading edge of a moving continental plate there will be little or no shelf. The western edge of the Americas are an example. The shelf on a passive edge of a plate will be wide and shallow. The widest shelf is the Siberian shelf in the Arctic Ocean: it is 1500 km (930 miles) in width.
There have been, at some periods, shallow seas "inside" continents. These are called epicontinental seas. Much of present-day North America was covered by an epicontinental sea called the Sundance Sea during the Jurassic period. In the Cretaceous an even larger area was covered by the Western Interior Seaway.
Continental seas have the richest life of the oceans, more species and greater numbers than anywhere else. This is because it has both sunlight and nutrients for photosynthesis. This causes microscopic algae and cyanobacteria to bloom, and then animals eat the phytoplankton. Most of the nutrients in the oceans are washed down from the continents by rivers. In particular, the continents are almost the only source for some key elements such as iron. The lack of nutrients away from continents explains why so much of the Pacific Ocean is almost barren of life, and why the shelves are so rich in life.
The shelf usually ends at a point of decreasing slope (called the shelf break). The sea floor below the break is the continental slope. The character of the shelf changes dramatically at the shelf break, where the continental slope begins. With a few exceptions, the shelf break is located at a remarkably uniform depth of roughly ; this is likely a hallmark of past ice ages, when sea level was lower than it is now.

</doc>
<doc id="21358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21358" title="Mariana Trench">
Mariana Trench

The Mariana Trench is the deepest known submarine trench. It is also the deepest known location on Earth itself. It lies south and east of the Mariana Islands, and has a depth up to 10,971 m (7 miles). The western end of the trench is near Guam.
The trench is about 2,550 kilometres (1,580 miles) long but has a mean width of only 69 kilometres (43 miles).
The deepest part of the trench is known as the Challenger Deep. It is named after the British Royal Navy survey ship "HMS Challenger", whose expedition of 1872–76 made the first recordings of its depth.
The most recent (1 June 2009) sonar mapping of the Challenger Deep from the "Kilo Moana", has found a spot with a depth of (6.82 miles). The sonar system has an accuracy of better than 0.2% of water depth (this is an error of about at this depth).<ref name="Daily reports for R/V KILO MOANA"></ref><ref name="Scientic Equipment aboard the R/V KILO MOANA"></ref>
The Challenger Deep has been reached four times by submersibles, namely the manned bathyscaphe "Trieste" on 23 January 1960, the unmanned robotic deep-sea probes "Kaiko" (Japanese) in 1995 and "Nereus" (U.S.) in 2009, and by James Cameron in the Deepsea Challenger on 26 March, 2012. Cameron was able to film a 3D movie of the bottom of the trench.
The HMS "Challenger" expedition found radiolaria in the two dredged samples taken when the Challenger Deep was first discovered. 
On their 1960 descent, the crew of the "Trieste" noted that the floor consisted of diatomaceous ooze and reported observing "some type of flatfish, resembling a sole, about 1 foot long and 6 inches across" lying on the seabed. The report has since been questioned, with suggestions that it may have been a sea cucumber. The video camera on board the "Kaiko" probe spotted a sea cucumber, a scale worm and a shrimp at the bottom. At the bottom of the Challenger deep, the "Nereus" probe spotted one polychaete worm about an inch long.
An analysis of the sediment samples collected by "Kaiko" found large numbers of simple organisms at . 
The overwhelming majority of the organisms collected were simple, soft-shelled foraminifera (432 species according to National Geographic). 
Eighty-five percent of the specimens were organic, soft-shelled forams. This is unusual compared to samples of sediment from other deep-sea environments, where the percentage of organic-walled foraminifera ranges from 5% to 20%. As small organisms with hard, calcareous shells have trouble growing at extreme depths because of the high solubility of calcium carbonate in the pressurized water, scientists theorize that the preponderance of soft-shelled organisms in the Challenger Deep may have resulted from survivors of the biosphere present when the Challenger Deep was shallower than it is now.
The trench is one of the results of a large boundary where two oceanic tectonic plates have converged (collided).
At the boundary, the western edge of the Pacific Plate is subducted beneath the small Mariana Plate. Because the Pacific plate is the largest of all the tectonic plates on Earth, crustal material at its western edge has had up to 170 million years to compact and become very dense; hence its great height-difference relative to the higher-riding Mariana Plate, at the point where the Pacific Plate crust is subducted. This deep area is the Mariana trench proper. The movement of these plates is also responsible for the formation of the Mariana Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="21359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21359" title="Mariana Islands">
Mariana Islands

The Mariana Islands (also the Marianas; up to the early 20th century sometimes called "Islas de los Ladrones" meaning "Islands of Thieves") are a group of islands made up by the summits of 15 volcanic mountains in the western Pacific Ocean. 
They are the southern part of a seamount range that goes on for 1,565 miles (2,519 km) from Guam to near Japan. The Marianas are the northernmost islands of a larger island group called Micronesia. The Marianas have a total land area of 396 square miles (1026 km²) and are composed of two administrative units:
The first European to discover the island group was Ferdinand Magellan in 1521. In 1667 Spain formally claimed them, and named them after Spanish Queen Mariana of Austria. 

</doc>
<doc id="21364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21364" title="Image scanner">
Image scanner

In computing or computer, an image scanner is a device used to transfer images or text into a computer. There are special models for scanning photo negatives, or to scan books. In the computer, the signal from the scanner is transferred to a digital image. This image can then be edited, printed, etc. All scanners have special parts which are used to take a picture from an object.
Charge-coupled device or Contact Image Sensor parts take the light from the object and change it into a digital signal. The digital signal is then transferred to the computer memory or is read in the scanner's processor. With some software it can be changed to a compressed digital image, like JPEG or PNG. Text written by hand can be changed to ASCII code by an OCR program.It is very important for computer
The main types of scanner 

</doc>
<doc id="21366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21366" title="Scanner">
Scanner

Scanner may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="21368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21368" title="Brassière">
Brassière

A brassière, commonly called a bra, is an undergarment for women. Its main purpose is to support their breasts, but is sometimes also used for sexual attraction in the form of lingerie. The bra is a nineteenth century invention which took off as a fashion garment in the 20th century.
Brassière measurement (also called bust size or bra size) refers to the size of bra a woman wears. Bra sizes were first introduced in the 1910s. The sizes vary from one manufacturer to another. Bra size systems are often used to label off-shelf bras and not custom-made bras.
The term "cup", in relation to bras, began being used in 1916 when two patents were issued. Cup sizes are given in letters such as A, B, C, etc.
Bra sizes in most countries have a number and a letter (for example, 34B). The number comes from the measurement of the ribcage directly underneath the breasts. The letter is a measure of how much larger the breasts are than the ribcage. This is found by measuring the chest over the breasts (across the nipples) and subtracting the ribcage measurement from the breast measurement, then finding the matching letter of the alphabet. For example, someone with a 3-inch difference between the breast measurement and the ribcage measurement would have a C-cup bra. However, this does not always work, since different manufacturers have differently-sized bras. Many women prefer to find a brand and size that works for them by trial and error.

</doc>
<doc id="21372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21372" title="Torture">
Torture

Torture is when someone puts another person in pain. This pain may be physical or psychological. People who have been tortured often suffer from long term physical problems or mental health issues. 
Reasons for torture can include punishment, revenge, political re-education, deterrence, and interrogation. Victims or third parties may be forced to take actions against their will. Torture may for the sadistic gratification of those watching the torture.
A common reason for torture is to get information from the victim, for example, to get confessions or the names of accomplices. Information got by torture is unreliable, because people suffering tend to say whatever the questioner wants them to say. Nevertheless, it was used for centuries by all kinds of societies. It was authorised by the Christian Church during the Inquisition from 1252 to 1816.
In 1600 Anton Praetorius fought against torture and against the hunting of witches. 
Almost all countries agree that torture is a violation of human rights. On 10 December 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Article 5 states, "No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment".
Amnesty International is the leading non-governmental organisation against the use of torture. It has regularly reported on which countries it thinks still use torture. It says "Over the last five years, Amnesty has reported torture in at least three quarters of the world - 141 countries".

</doc>
<doc id="21377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21377" title="1680s">
1680s

This is about events of the 1680s.
For births and deaths in the 1860s see and .

</doc>
<doc id="21378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21378" title="Cheaper by the Dozen (movie)">
Cheaper by the Dozen (movie)

Cheaper by the Dozen refers to two movies based on the book of the same name by Frank Bunker Gilbreth, Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey:

</doc>
<doc id="21382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21382" title="Dependency">
Dependency

Dependency has a number of meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="21384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21384" title="Iqaluit, Nunavut">
Iqaluit, Nunavut

Iqaluit is the capital of and largest community in Nunavut Territory in Canada. It is the most northerly capital in Canada, and is also Canada's fastest growing community. The name "" is Inuktitut word meaning "place of many fish". It is built on the mouth of the Sylvia Grinnell River, on Frobisher's Bay. English explorer Martin Frobisher sailed into the bay in 1576 and thought he had discovered the Northwest Passage. The settlement was called Frobisher's Bay from 1955 until 1987.
Its weather is normally cold.

</doc>
<doc id="21387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21387" title="Phasor">
Phasor

A phasor is a tool in mathematics. It is used to show numbers in a different coordinate system. Certain electronic components have models that can be described more easily by the use of phasors. Inductors add a +90º "phase", while capacitors add -90º "phase". Both elements work on the imaginary axis. Resistors have 0º "phase", and are considered real.

</doc>
<doc id="21390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21390" title="Svalbard">
Svalbard

Svalbard is a group of islands in the Arctic Ocean. It is the most northern part of Norway. It is about halfway between mainland Norway and the North Pole. Spitsbergen is the largest island, followed by Nordaustlandet and Edgeøya. The islands are governed by the Governor of Svalbard. The government is located at Longyearbyen. Other settlements include research outposts, the Russian mining community of Barentsburg, the research community of Ny-Ålesund and the mining outpost of Sveagruva.
The islands were first used as a whaling base in the 17th and 18th centuries. After this, they were abandoned. Coal mining started at the beginning of the 20th century, and several permanent villages were built. The Spitsbergen Treaty of 1920 states that Norway is in control of Svalbard. The 1925 Svalbard Act made Svalbard part of Norway. These treaties also set out rules that economic activities could be done freely and that no military activities can take place. There are only two mining companies, one Norwegian and one Russian. Research and tourism are important industries. There are no roads to connect the settlements. Instead, snowmobiles, aircraft and boats serve as transport. Svalbard Airport in Longyearbyen is the main airport.
In summer, the plants grow quickly during the midnight sun. Svalbard is a breeding ground for many seabirds. There are also polar bears, reindeer, and mammals that live in the sea. Seven national parks and 23 nature reserves cover two-thirds of Svalbard. This protects the fragile natural environment. Sixty percent of land is covered by glaciers, and the islands have many mountains and fjords.
Svalbard's climate is a combination of an Arctic climate (Köppen: ET) tempered by the North Atlantic Current. Nordenskiöld Land is the warmest and wettest part of the archipelago, caused by the convergence of mild and humid air from the south and cold air from the north. Average summer highs are typically while average winter highs are . Svalbard experiences midnight sun from 19 April through 23 August, polar night from 27 October through 14 February and civil polar night from 14 November through 29 January. However, due to shading from mountains, the sun is not visible in Svalbard until around 8 March. Snow typically covers the town from November through March. The warmest temperature ever record in Svalbard was an extraordinary in July 1977 and the coldest was a frigid in March 1986.
Despite its extreme northerly location, Svalbard has recorded a temperature above freezing in all months. One example was in February 2012, when the mild temperatures had an affect on both people and wildlife. The climate is known to be warming very rapidly. Svalbard has also not recorded a temperature below freezing in July.
Warm temperatures can occasionally occur in Summer. The most recent warm spell was at the end of July to the beginning of August in 2015, when the mercury hit .
Bjornoya (Bear Island) holds the record for the lowest average annual sunshine total in Europe, at just 595 hours, sunnier than some parts of Scotland. Conversely, Longyearbyen, further to the north-west, receives almost twice as much sunshine as Bjornoya.

</doc>
<doc id="21391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21391" title="1670s">
1670s


</doc>
<doc id="21394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21394" title="Margrethe II of Denmark">
Margrethe II of Denmark

Margrethe II ("Margrethe Alexandrine Þórhildur Ingrid") (born 16 April 1940) is the Queen regnant of Denmark. Only very rarely is her name anglicized as Margaret II.
Princess Margrethe was born at Amalienborg Palace, Copenhagen, to Crown Prince Frederik and Crown Princess Ingrid. She was baptised on 14 May 1940 at the Naval Church in Copenhagen. As King Christian X of Denmark was also the King of Iceland at the time of her birth, the Princess was given an Icelandic name, "Þórhildur" (spelled with the Icelandic thorn character, simplified as "th").
She studied archaeology at Girton College, Cambridge in 1960-1961. She was also at the London School of Economics in 1965.
Margrethe was not born to be monarch, even though she was the eldest child of the Crown Prince, later King. At the time of her birth, only males could ascend the throne of Denmark.
The act of succession was changed in 1953.
Her father king Frederik IX died in 1972, and Queen Margrethe II became the first female Danish Sovereign.

</doc>
<doc id="21395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21395" title="Category:Clothing">
Category:Clothing

These are articles about Clothing.

</doc>
<doc id="21396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396" title="Enterprise Architecture">
Enterprise Architecture

Enterprise architecture is comprehensive framework used to manage and align an organization's business processes, information technology, computer hardware and software, local and wide area networks, people, operations and projects with the organization's overall strategy.
A strong enterprise architecture process helps to answer basic questions.
There are numerous enterprise architecture frameworks defined. Here is a list of a few prevalent frameworks:

</doc>
<doc id="21397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21397" title="Mutilation">
Mutilation

Mutilation is when the way a human body looks is permanently changed. This change may be due to an accident, or it may be the result of torture.
Losing a part of the body (like a hand), or permanent scars (different looking skin after a bad injury heals) on the body, might be a result of mutilation.

</doc>
<doc id="21406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21406" title="Heiner Zieschang">
Heiner Zieschang

Heiner Zieschang (born 12 November 1936 in Kiel; died 5 April 2004) was a German mathematician. He was a professor at Ruhr-University Bochum from 1968 till 2002. In 1996 he was made an honorary doctor of the University of Toulouse and in 1997 he was an honorary professor of Moscow State University. 

</doc>
<doc id="21408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21408" title="Jan Mayen">
Jan Mayen

Jan Mayen is an island in the Arctic Ocean. It is part of Norway. The island's area is 373 km². A large part of the island is an active volcano, the Beerenberg, which is 2,277m high. Jan Mayen is 600 km north of Iceland, 500 km east of Greenland and 1000 km west of the Norwegian mainland.
There is a radio station and a meteorological station on the island. The staff at these stations are the only people living on the island.
There are many claims and stories about discovery of the island. Some claims and possible discoveries are as early as the beginning of the 6th century. However, the first discovery that is certain was in 1614. The Dutchman Jan Jacobs May van Schellinkhout visited the island then and it is named for him. His first mate made maps of some of the coast.
It is incorrectly assumed that Henry Hudson discovered the island in 1607 and called it "Hudson's Tutches" or "Touches", but there is no evidence for this. Thereafter it was allegedly seen several times by navigators who claimed its discovery and renamed it. Thus, in 1611 or the following year whalers from Hull named it "Trinity Island"; in 1612 Jean Vrolicq, a French whaler, claimed in 1629 that he had discovered the island and called it "Île de Richelieu;" and in 1614 English captain John Clarke named it Isabella. 
The island has very few residents. The Long Range Navigation (Loran-C) base has a staff of 14 and a weather services station has a staff of four. The staff members of both stations live in Olonkinbyen. The island has no native people living on it, but is given the ISO 3166-1 country code SJ, the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) .no (.sj is allocated but not used) and data code JN. Its amateur radio call sign prefix is JX.

</doc>
<doc id="21415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21415" title="Gate">
Gate

In the beginning, a gate was a place between two parts of a wall, or a fence which could be opened and closed to let people go through it.
In the Middle Ages, a city gate also allowed people to go into a (walled) city.
Nowadays, people also talk about "gates" at airports. When going on an aircraft, people need to get together in a certain area of the airport first. They then pass through some kind of doorway to get onto the plane. That is what is called "gate".

</doc>
<doc id="21416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21416" title="City gate">
City gate

A city gate is a gate that is found in many medieval cities. It was the place where people could enter or leave the city. Very often, city gates were closed during the night.

</doc>
<doc id="21418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21418" title="Bern">
Bern

Bern is the capital city of Switzerland. It is also the capital of the canton of Bern.
As of early 2006, 127.000 people live in the city.
Bern was started in 1191 by Berchthold V. von Zähringen. A legend says that he said he would name the city after the next animal he caught. So when he caught a bear (German: "Bär") the city was named Bern. Zähringen built the city in the half-circle the river Aare makes.
Public streetcars and buses are run by an organization called BernMobil. There are 3 streetcar lines and about 15 bus lines. Most of the lines are in the city but some travel away from the city. There is also the Marzilibahn, a funicular (inclined- or cliff-railway) which goes from the banks of the Aare up to the Federal Building (German: "Bundeshaus"). The Marzilibahn is 105 meters long. It is the shortest funicular in Europe. Another funicular, called the Gurtenbahn, goes from the section of Bern called Wabern, which is on the river Aare, up to the top of Gurten, a large hill 585 meters high that is just south of Bern. A small airport, Belpmoos, is located a short distance south of Bern in Belp.
Each year, on the 4th Monday in November, there is the Onion Market in Bern, where onions are sold. Many people visit the market in the early morning and throw confetti. They also hit other people with hammers made out of plastic
Since 1996, every August 1 (a national holiday in Switzerland) they hold the Aareleuchten. The Aareleuchten is paid for by SwissAid. During the festival, people put small ships with a light in them into the river Aare. All of these small lights make the Aare "glow."

</doc>
<doc id="21422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21422" title="Demo (software)">
Demo (software)

A demo is a small portion or sample of a product. Usually the product is music, video game, or computer program. Demos are usually given to people who might be interested the product to try it before buying and advertise the product.

</doc>
<doc id="21423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21423" title="Preview">
Preview

A preview is a small piece of something used to show what the whole is like before it is generally available. Typically, previews exist for movies and possibly video games. They usually are a small portion of video showing what the game or movie is like to advertise it.
In software, a preview can be a feature that allows a user to see what a document looks like before the user prints it out, or posts it on a website.

</doc>
<doc id="21424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21424" title="Atomic mass">
Atomic mass

An atomic mass (symbol: "m") is the mass of a single atom of a chemical element. It includes the masses of the 3 subatomic particles that make up an atom: protons, neutrons and electrons.
Atomic mass can be expressed in grams. However, because individual atoms have very small masses, this is not very helpful. Instead, atomic mass is expressed in unified atomic mass units (unit symbol: u). 1 atomic mass unit is defined as 1/12 of the mass of a single carbon-12 atom. 1 u has a value of 1.660538921(73) × 10 kg.
A carbon-12 atom has a mass of 12 u. Because electrons are so light, we can say that the mass of a carbon-12 atom is made of 6 protons and 6 neutrons. Because the masses of protons and neutrons are almost exactly the same, we can say that both protons and neutrons have a mass of roughly 1 u. Hence, we can get a rough value of an atom's mass in atomic mass units by working out the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons in the nucleus, which is called the mass number. The atomic mass of an atom is usually within 0.1 u of the mass number.
The number of protons an atom has determines what element it is. However, most elements in nature consist of atoms with different numbers of neutrons. An atom of an element with a certain number of neutrons is called an isotope. For example, the element chlorine has two common isotopes: chlorine-35 and chlorine-37. Both isotopes of chlorine have 17 protons, but chlorine-37 has 20 neutrons, 2 more neutrons than chlorine-35, which has 18. Each isotope has its own atomic mass, called its isotopic mass. In the case of chlorine, chlorine-35 has a mass of around 35 u, and chlorine-37 around 37 u.
As mentioned above, note that the atomic mass of an atom is not the same as its mass number. The mass number (symbol: A) of an atom is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons in the nucleus. Mass numbers are always whole numbers with no units. Also, "relative" isotopic mass is not the same as isotopic mass, and relative atomic mass (also called "atomic weight") is not the same as atomic mass.
A relative isotopic mass is the mass of an isotope relative to 1/12 of the mass of a carbon-12 atom. In other words, a relative isotopic mass tells you the number of times an isotope of an element is heavier than one-twelfth of an atom of carbon-12. The word "relative" in relative isotopic mass refers to this scaling relative to carbon-12. Relative isotopic mass is similar to isotopic mass and has exactly the same numerical value as isotopic mass, whenever isotopic mass is expressed in atomic mass units. However, unlike isotopic mass, relative isotopic mass values have no units.
Like relative isotopic mass, a relative atomic mass (symbol: "A") is a ratio with no units. A relative atomic mass is the ratio of the average mass per atom of an element from a given sample to 1/12 the mass of a carbon-12 atom. We find the relative atomic mass of a sample of an element by working out the abundance-weighted mean of the relative isotopic masses. For example, to continue the chlorine example from above, if there is 75% of chlorine-35 and 25% of chlorine-37 in a sample of chlorine,

</doc>
<doc id="21425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21425" title="Price">
Price

There are different definitions of price. Perhaps the simplest definition is to say "price is the value of a product (good) or service". A price is expressed in other goods, services, or in money.
Here is an example about price: Peter raises sheep for their wool. Sally raises chickens for their eggs. Winter is coming, so Sally wants to make a warm wool coat.
She first measures how much wool she needs for a coat. She thinks she needs the wool from 2 sheep for the coat. She then goes to Peter and asks him what he wants for the wool she needs. Peter then tells her the price he is asking for his wool. Sally might trade some of her chicken eggs for the wool.
Sometimes trading eggs for wool is difficult. So people invented something they called "money". This is cash or currency used for trading.
If Peter does not need eggs, he will not trade his wool for eggs. The price for his wool "in eggs" is zero, but Peter does need something else. So Sally goes to a market and sells some of her eggs for money. Then she goes to Peter and gives him money for the wool. How much money Peter wants for his wool is the price.

</doc>
<doc id="21428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21428" title="Doping">
Doping

Doping or dope can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21431" title="Category:VOA Special English words">
Category:VOA Special English words

VOA stands for Voice of America, a radio program sponsored by the U.S. government.
This category includes words that are part of the VOA Special English word list.
See also 

</doc>
<doc id="21433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21433" title="1640s">
1640s


</doc>
<doc id="21434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21434" title="1660s">
1660s


</doc>
<doc id="21437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21437" title="Gaza Strip">
Gaza Strip

The Gaza Strip is a Palestinian stretch of land along the Mediterranean. The main city in the Gaza Strip is called Gaza. The strip is not currently part of any recognized country. It is governed by the Palestinian political party Hamas, within the confines of Israel's military occupation.
It is one of the most densely populated areas on Earth. About 1.8 million people live on a surface of roughly 360 km².
Israel withdrew Jewish-only settlements and troops from Gaza in 2005, but retains control of the Strip's borders, coastline and airspace. It has since then subjected Gaza to a blockade, severely restricting Gazans' freedom of movement and access to essential goods. Gaza is recognized as occupied territory under international law by the United Nations, Amnesty International, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and several other organizations. Israel disputes this.
80% of the inhabitants are recognized as refugees by the United Nations Works Relief Agency (UNWRA). They live in cities which they call refugee camps. The main problems facing the area are assaults by the Israeli military, unemployment, poverty, lack of access to clean drinking water, lack of access to higher education, lack of access to electricity, and malnutrition as a result of the Israeli blockade.

</doc>
<doc id="21439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21439" title="Unemployment">
Unemployment

Unemployment is when a person who is of normal working age (usually about 15-18 to about 60-65) does not have a paid job. They therefore do not get paid a salary. In some parts of the world, there are social networks to care for the unemployed.
The unemployment rate is the number of unemployed people divided by the total population of that age group of a country. The unemployment rate is influenced by many things, including the government of a country to the average age of a country's population. Unemployment is a bad thing for society.
A certain amount of unemployment is natural. 'Full employment' does not mean no-one is out of work. Governments now aim to increase the number of jobs (which can be done) rather than cut out all unemployment (which cannot be done). the

</doc>
<doc id="21442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21442" title="Salary">
Salary

A salary is a type of payment a person gets for work done for a job. A "salary" is usually paid for a fixed period of time, like a month or a week. Generally, it does not matter how many hours are worked, the salary remains the same. If someone is not a salaried employee, they are generally an hourly employee and are paid a certain amount an hour which is known as wages.

</doc>
<doc id="21444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21444" title="Instant noodles">
Instant noodles

Instant noodles is a dish used in cooking. These noodles were cooked at the factory and packaged as dried noodles, often with a special powder that adds flavor to the noodles. The dish is prepared very quickly (usually 5 minutes or less), simply by putting the noodles together in hot water and then adding the powder. A kind of noodle soup is then ready to eat.
"Instant noodles" are very popular in Asia, and among many students and poorer people, because they are very cheap to produce and to buy. In the United States, a package of instant noodles sometimes costs only ten cents.
There are many companies who manufacture Instant Noodles, some of them being:

</doc>
<doc id="21446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21446" title="Category:Cities in Switzerland">
Category:Cities in Switzerland


</doc>
<doc id="21447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21447" title="Category:Norway">
Category:Norway

This category is for things related to the country of Norway.

</doc>
<doc id="21448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21448" title="Louis Armstrong">
Louis Armstrong

Louis Armstrong (August 4, 1901 – July 6, 1971) nicknamed Satchmo or Pops was an American jazz trumpeter and singer from New Orleans, Louisiana. He sang the blues and played the trumpet and the cornet. He was famous in many countries. He was also known for his good singing voice. Armstrong won many awards during his career. 
He died of a heart attack in July 6, 1971 in Corona, Queens, New York City. 

</doc>
<doc id="21449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21449" title="Category:Wikipedia Schools">
Category:Wikipedia Schools

Articles in this category are for schools that are using Wikipedia.
Ethically you must write authentic information. So that it can be useful for the international community at large in long run. Some day information provided by you may become part of history. So Please take care while writing articles for wikipedia. We must keep wiki spirit up.

</doc>
<doc id="21450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21450" title="Wikipedia:Schools">
Wikipedia:Schools


</doc>
<doc id="21459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21459" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial


</doc>
<doc id="21461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21461" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page2">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page2

The most commonly used wiki tags are bold and "italics". Bolding and "italicizing" are done by surrounding a word or phrase with multiple apostrophes ('):
"italics" appears as "italics". (2 apostrophes on both sides)
bold appears as bold. (3 apostrophes on both sides)
bolded italics appears as bolded italics. (5 apostrophes on both sides)
Note: You can type multiple quote characters by surrounding them in <pre> or <nowiki> tags.
On Wikipedia we bold the subject of an article when it is first mentioned in the article. We also "italicize" book, movie and computer/video game titles. If the first mention of the subject of an article is also a book or movie title then bold italics is used.
Headings and subheadings are an easy way to improve the organization of an article. You can break up the article by inserting a heading for each section.
Headings can be created like this:
If an article has at least four headings, a table of contents will automatically be generated. Headings will be added automatically to the table of contents for the page, so long as three others already exist. If you don't want a table of contents for the page, then add to the top of your page.
<div style="clear:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="21464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21464" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page3">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page3

Linking
You can easily make links to other articles in Wikipedia. If you want to link the word "aardvark" to the article on aardvarks, you would simply add two sets of square brackets around the word like this: aardvark. The link would look like this: aardvark.
You can also change what text appears in the link. To do this, add a pipe symbol ( | ) after the page you want to link to. Then add what you want to appear.
So typing article on aardvarks would look like this: article on aardvarks.
You can link to other websites as well as Wikipedia too. Google would look like this: Google
<div style="clear:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="21465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21465" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page4">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page4

Talk pages
If you want to make a comment about an article, just click the 'talk' link at the top of the page and leave a message. Always end your messages with ~~~~ to automatically sign your name.
If you are answering someone else's message, indent your post with a colon (:) at the beginning. You can indent it further using more than one colon.
Everyone on Wikipedia also has a talk page, including you. This is how people talk to each other on Wikipedia. If you want to ask another user a question, just leave a message on their talk page. They will then leave a reply on your talk page.
When someone changes your talk page, a box will appear next time you load a page telling you that you have new messages.
<div style="clear:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="21466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21466" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page5">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page5

Important things to remember
Be nice! If someone makes a change you don't like, leave a polite message on the article's talk page asking why.
Keep a neutral point of view (NPOV). This means that when you make changes try to consider other ways of looking at things, not just your own opinion.
Watch what you write. We are an encyclopedia, so articles must be about something important. See for more of what you shouldn't write.
Be aware of copyright. Do not put material on Wikipedia that is copyrighted by somebody else. As most things on the Internet are copyrighted, do not just copy information from a web page. Use your own personal knowledge.
<div style="clear:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="21467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21467" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page6">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page6

There are lots of things to remember when making changes to Wikipedia. The most important thing is to not be scared of making these changes. Don't worry about making mistakes, we can easily fix them.
If you need help when making changes, first visit the . If you are still stuck, ask your teacher, or another member on their talk page. You can also ask an . Remember that not everyone will be online, so don't expect an instant reply!
<div style="clear:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="21468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21468" title="1430s">
1430s


</doc>
<doc id="21469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21469" title="Element">
Element

Element can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21471" title="Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page7">
Wikipedia:Student tutorial/page7

Congratulations, you can now start making changes to Wikipedia! Come back and feel free to look at this tutorial any time if you feel unsure on anything.
If you'd like to start looking for articles on any subject right now, a great place to start is our . Or you could simply look around in order to improve any articles lying around, like ! If you want to make an article now (not really recommended), visit the .
<div style="clear:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="21472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21472" title="CBS">
CBS

CBS Broadcasting Inc. (CBS) (full name: Columbia Broadcasting System) is an United States television network. Along with ABC, NBC and FOX, it is one of the country's four major television networks.

</doc>
<doc id="21483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21483" title="Prime Minister of Canada">
Prime Minister of Canada

The Prime Minister of Canada is the person who normally exercises most political power in Canada. He or she is elected by Canadian citizens, and is normally the leader of the biggest political party in the House of Commons (the lower and elected house of the Canadian Parliament). In 2015, Justin Trudeau became the 23rd Prime Minister of Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="21487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21487" title="Category:Series of books">
Category:Series of books


</doc>
<doc id="21488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21488" title="Magnetism">
Magnetism

In physics, magnetism is a force that can attract (pull closer) or repel (push away) objects that have a magnetic material like iron inside them ("magnetic objects"). In simpler words it is a property of certain substances which pull closer or repel other objects.
Magnetism can be made by a permanent "magnet", or by electricity in a wire. This is called an electromagnet. When magnets are put near magnetic objects, the magnet and the object are pulled toward each other. This is called magnetic attraction. Magnets can also repel (push away) other magnets. Most objects that are attracted to magnets have iron in them. Most other metals, such as aluminium, are not attracted to magnets. 
Magnets have an unseen area around them called a "magnetic field". Magnetic objects inside this unseen field are attracted to the magnet. Magnetic things outside the magnetic field are not attracted to the magnet. This is why a magnet must be close to an object to attract it.
The poles of two magnets repel or attract each other. Different poles attract each other. For example, if the south pole of one magnet is put near the south pole of another magnet, the magnets will repel each other. This will also happen with two north poles that are put near each other. If a north pole is put near a south pole, the magnets will attract each other until they stick to each other and can be hard to pull apart.
Magnetism is caused by electrons (the negative particles in atoms that are also electric charges) spinning. The more a group of electrons spin in the same direction, the stronger the magnetic force. In a magnet, many electrons are spinning in the same direction.
We can magnetize a small piece of iron by 'rubbing' it with a magnet. The electrons in the iron get 'spun' by the passing magnet just like a basketball player spinning a basketball.
Magnets have many uses. One of them was found long ago when explorers found that a magnet could be used as a compass to show the direction of north & south.
Electromagnets are another kind of magnet. They only work when electricity is running through them. An electric current makes a magnetic field. If you wrap the wire into a coil, the electrons spin around the coil and make a stronger magnetic domain.
Often, these magnets work by using a coil of wire that makes a magnetic field when there is a current in it. In addition to this coil of wire, a large piece of metal, usually iron, is placed inside the coil to increase the magnetic field made. Though most large electromagnets employ many solenoids to lift heavy objects, smaller solenoids are used in everyday electronics. For example, they are used to change voltage in a transformer. 
Electromagnets are used to make many things work like computers, televisions and radios and also doorbells.
Electromagnetic radiation including radio waves and light waves are used for communication including broadcasting and optical fiber, and for many other purposes.
The North Magnetic Pole is the point on the surface of Earth's northern hemisphere where the planet's magnetic field points vertically downwards. There is only one place where this occurs, near to (but distinct from) the Geographic North Pole.
Its southern hemisphere counterpart is the South Magnetic Pole. Since the Earth's magnetic field is not exactly symmetrical, a line drawn from one to the other does not pass through the geometric centre of the Earth.
The North Magnetic Pole moves over time due to magnetic changes in the Earth's core. In 2001, it was near Ellesmere Island in northern Canada at . As of 2015, the pole is thought to have moved east beyond the Canadian Arctic territorial claim to .
Earth does change its magnetic poles every million years (plus or minus 200,000 years). Before a change of magnetic field, the Earth's magnetic field becomes weaker and moves around, like a spinning top would before it falls. The Earth has already had hundreds of changes ("flip flops"). Scientists know this as a result of studies of magnetism on the sea floor, near the mid-Atlantic ridge. The lava slowly moves out of this crevasse (gap in the sea floor) and then it cools with its iron oxide molecules all pointing in the new direction of the Earth's magnetic field. We can look at the history of this magnetic field today to look back at the many flips in the past. 
Reversals occur at intervals from less than 0.1 million years to as much as 50 million years. The most recent geomagnetic reversal, called the Brunhes–Matuyama reversal, occurred about 780,000 years ago. Another global reversal of the Earth's field, called the Laschamp event, occurred during the last ice age (41,000 years ago). However, because of its brief duration it is called an "excursion".

</doc>
<doc id="21490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490" title="Althing">
Althing

The Althing () is the national parliament of Iceland. It is the oldest legislature in the world that still exists. It was founded in 930 at Thingvellir (the "assembly fields"), which is almost east of Iceland's capital, Reykjavík. When the Althing was formed, that was the beginning of Iceland as a country. Even after Iceland's union with Norway, the Althing still held its meetings at Thingvellir until 1799, when it was stopped for 45 years. It started meeting again in 1845 and moved to Reykjavík, where it has been ever since. The parliament building where the Althing meets now is called the Alþingishús. It was built with Icelandic stone in 1880–1881.
Iceland is divided into six electoral constituencies. Each constituency elects nine members. Another nine seats are divided between parties based on how many people in the whole country voted for them. This is to make sure that each party is represented in proportion to its overall support, even if it didn't win a constituency. The percentage of people who vote in Iceland is very high: usually over 85 percent of the electorate casts a vote (87.7% in 2003).
The name "Althingi" means "all the assemblies" (a "thing" in Icelandic is a governing assembly of people).
The Althing formed around the year 930, about 60 years after humans arrived on the island of Iceland. It started as a meeting of the country's most powerful leaders. They met to make laws and rule on matters of justice. All free men could attend the assemblies, which were usually the main social event of the year. Forming the centre of the meeting place was the "lögberg" (law rock), a rock where the speaker of the assembly sat. It was his responsibility to say the laws and decisions out loud to the people.
The most important group within the Althing was the "lögrétta". It was made up of the country's 36 district leaders, nine other members, and the speaker. This group made the laws and ruled on legal disputes.
After the union with Norway in 1264, the speaker was replaced by two administrators called "lögmenn", who were appointed by the Norwegian king. The "lögrétta" shared legislative power with the king. Laws adopted by the Althing had to be approved by the king, and if the king made a law, it had to be approved by the Althing.
In the 14th century, the monarchies of Norway and Denmark were united and Iceland was ruled from Copenhagen. This became an absolute monarchy and the Althing gave up the right to make laws for Iceland. It served only as a court of law until June 1800, when the king dissolved it completely. It was replaced by a High Court of three judges who met in Reykjavik.
In July 1843, the king said the Althing could be recreated. Elections were held the year after, and the new parliament met for the first time on 1 July 1845. A constitution was created in 1874. It granted the Althing joint legislative power with the crown in matters relating only to Iceland. It increased the number of members of the Althing to 36: 30 of them were elected and the other six appointed by the king.
Iceland was given home rule in October 1903. In December 1918, Iceland was brought into a personal union with the King of Denmark. It was set so that after 25 years, the country could choose to leave the union. The Althing was given unlimited legislative power. The king no longer had any law-making powers in the country. The number of members of the Althing was increased to 42 in 1920, and to 52 in 1942.
Women were given the right to vote in 1915. The first female member of parliament was elected in 1922.
When Denmark was occupied by Germany on 9 April 1940, its union with Iceland was no longer in effect. On the next day, the Althing gave the Icelandic cabinet executive power. It made the prime minister head of state. A year later the Althing appointed a regent to represent the king. This office continued until 1944, when the personal union with the Danish king expired. The modern-day Republic of Iceland was established at a session of the Althing held at Thingvellir on 17 June 1944.

</doc>
<doc id="21491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21491" title="Blues (disambiguation)">
Blues (disambiguation)

Blues can mean more than one thing:

</doc>
<doc id="21492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21492" title="Amapá">
Amapá

Amapá is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the far north, bordering French Guiana in the north. To the east is the Atlantic Ocean, and to the south and west is the Brazilian state Pará.
The state is mostly covered by rainforest. The state is known for producing iron and other metals.
Amapá has only been a Brazilian state since 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="21500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21500" title="Fictional character">
Fictional character

A fictional character is a person in a work of art such as a novel, play, opera or movie. If it is a made-up person or imaginary person (not someone who really or actually lived) it is a "fictional character". Some examples are Kermit the Frog, Yoda, SpongeBob SquarePants, Bambi, Tod and Copper, or Bart and Lisa Simpson from "The Simpsons.
The word character can also mean "personality". We can say that someone has a "strong character" meaning a strong, confident personality. It is sometimes used as a noun in this sense: "He is a real character" (meaning someone you cannot easily forget).
A character role in a play means one of the people in the play who have a particular character (personality). They contrast with the main characters of the play. For example, there may be two lovers who are the main characters of the story. The character roles might be: a wicked step-mother, a kind nurse, an old wise man, a stupid fool, a domestic worker who is very old etc.

</doc>
<doc id="21505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21505" title="Blues">
Blues

The blues is a form of music that started in the United States during the start of the 20th century. It was started by former African slaves from spirituals, praise songs, and chants. The first blues songs were called Delta blues. These songs came from the area near the mouth of the Mississippi River. Many African Americans migrated to the north esp. in the northwest of the United States, to find work. They took the blues with them and developed it into new styles. The most important is the Chicago Blues, which is played with electric amplified instruments. But other cities and states have their own form of Blues developed from the Delta Blues (f. e. Texas Blues, West Coast Blues and others).
Blues is based on a simple pattern. "“Blues is easy to play, but hard to feel”"-Jimi Hendrix. A common form for the blues is a repeating 12 bar form (each bar has 4 beats). This is put together as 3 phrases or sections, each being 4 bars long. The basic blues only needs 3 chords, one based on the first note of the scale - the tonic chord, one based on the fourth note of the scale - the subdominant chord, and one based on the fifth note of the scale - the dominant chord. The first section or phrase of 4 bars only uses the tonic chord. A common variation is to use the subdominant chord in the second bar. The second phrase has 2 bars (8 beats) of subdominant chord then 2 bars of tonic chord. The third phrase has 1 bar (4 beats) of dominant chord, 1 bar of subdominant chord and finishes with 2 bars of tonic chord.
In a scale based on the note C (C is the 1st or tonic, F is the 4th or subdominant, and G is the 5th or dominant), the chord pattern of a 12 bar blues would be like this:
C C C C |C C C C or F F F F |C C C C |C C C C |
F F F F |F F F F |C C C C |C C C C |
G G G G |F F F F |C C C C |C C C C |
The melody of the simplest blues scales are based on the scale for example C Eflat G A Bflat C, with extra notes (called "blue notes") added like this C Eflat Gflat G A Bflat C. Blue notes do not normally fit a scale, but they give the music a special feeling.
The lyrics (words) are usually about life, more specifically, the bad things in life. They are simple blues songs that are also based around the form of 3 phrases. The first phrase is set over the first 4 bars of music. The second phrase words are a repetition of the first phrase, this always happens and emphasises the message. The third phrase completes the "story" and rhymes (ends with the same sound) as the first line. This verse from Robert Johnson's "Crossroad Blues" shows how these phrases work in a song:
"I went to the crossroads, fell down on my knees"
"I went to the crossroads, fell down on my knees"
"Asked the Lord above, have mercy now, save poor Bob if you please"
The blues have made a difference in newer American and Western popular music, such as jazz, bluegrass, rhythm and blues, rock and roll, hip-hop, and country music, as well as common pop songs.

</doc>
<doc id="21506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21506" title="Category:Blues music">
Category:Blues music

Blues

</doc>
<doc id="21510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21510" title="Macroeconomics">
Macroeconomics

Macroeconomics studies large-scale economic decisions. For example, a whole country's economy (or, its economic output) is summarised by the GDP (gross domestic product). Many governments use macroeconomic ideas to decide how much tax to collect and what interest rates should be. 
It also considers the amount of unemployment, the rate that prices go up (inflation), and the exchange rates of its currency. The exchange rate affects the amount of imports and exports. Exchange rates and taxation are "levers of the economy". 
Less dramatic, but also very important, are decisions about government spending inside the country. Such police decisions are politically controversial due to differing political ideas on government spending. Another factor in macroeconomics is the make-up of the population. A growing population is economically different from a stable population (one which is not growing).

</doc>
<doc id="21513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21513" title="Game theory">
Game theory

Game theory is the study of how and why people make decisions. (Specifically, it is "the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between intelligent rational decision-makers".) It helps people understand parts of science and politics. An alternative term suggested "as a more descriptive name for the discipline" is interactive decision theory.
In the Cold War period, the strategic decisions of the United States and the Soviet Union were sometimes viewed as an exercise in game theory. In that case the "players" being studied were the United States and the Soviet Union.
Game theory is not just about games, but how and why businesses make decisions, and just about any decision based on valuing likely outcomes. In game theory, all of these situations are "games" since the people involved make choices based on how they value the possible outcomes of the choices. This is true even of cases where the decisions of a single person only affect that one person. 
Game theory is found in the financial choices people make, and is found in the study of economics. 
One example is the prisoner's dilemma. It gives an example where co-operation may not be the "best choice" in game theory. 
Suppose two people are arrested for a crime, and the police are uncertain which person committed the crime, and which person abetted the crime. Each is given a choice: If each remains silent, they are both soon released. If one betrays the other, the betrayer goes free, and the other is imprisoned for a long time. If each betrays the other, they both are held for a shorter time. 
If you are a prisoner in this situation and you only care about yourself, the way to get the smallest sentence is to betray the other prisoner. No matter what, you get a shorter sentence when you betray than when you do not. If the other prisoner stays silent and does not betray, then betraying means you do not go to jail at all instead of going to jail for 6 months. If the other prisoner betrays, then betraying lets you go to jail for 2 years instead of 10 years. In short, "betrayal" is the best strategy, and is called the "dominant strategy." 
The prisoner's dilemma does not have same result if some of the details are different. If the prisoners (or countries) can talk with each other and plan for the future, they might both decide to cooperate (not betray) because they hope that will make the other country help them in the future. In game theory, this is called a "repeated game." If the players are altruistic (if they care about each other), they might be okay with going to jail so they can help the other person.
Game theory has also been used in philosophy. Responding to two papers by W.V.O. Quine from 1960 and 1967, used game theory to develop a philosophical account of convention. With this, he provided the first analysis of common knowledge and used it to analyze play in coordination games. In addition, he first suggested that it is possible to understand meaning in terms of signaling games. This suggetion has been pursued by several philosophers since Lewis. Following game-theoretic account of conventions, Edna Ullmann-Margalit (1977) and Bicchieri (2006) have developed theories of Social norms that define them as Nash equilibria that result from transforming a mixed-motive game into a coordination game.
Game theory has also challenged philosophers to think in terms of interactive Epistemology: what it means for a collective to have common beliefs or knowledge, and what are the consequences of this knowledge for the social outcomes resulting from agents' interactions. Philosophers who have worked in this area include Bicchieri (1989, 1993), Skyrms (1990), and Stalnaker (1999).
Using the ethics part of philosophy pursues Thomas Hobbes' project of deriving morality from self-interest. Since games like the Prisoner's dilemma present an apparent conflict between morality and self-interest, explaining why cooperation is required by self-interest is an important part of this project. This general strategy is a component of the general Social contract view in Political philosophy (for examples, see and ).
Other authors have attempted to use Evolutionary game theory to explain the emergence of human attitudes about morality and corresponding animal behaviors. These authors look at several games including the prisoner's dilemma, Stag hunt, and the Nash bargaining game as providing an explanation for the emergence of attitudes about morality (see, e.g., and ).

</doc>
<doc id="21515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21515" title="Taj Mahal">
Taj Mahal

The Taj Mahal is a tomb built in the 17th century by the Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan, in memory of his wife, Mumtaz Mahal. She was his third wife. Eventually, Shah Jahan was entombed in the Taj Mahal with his wife.
The building is in the city of Agra, Uttar Pradesh. Widely thought of as one of the most beautiful buildings in the world, it is one of India's biggest tourist attractions.
It is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, together with the Agra Fort, 2.5 kilometers away. It was listed as one of the New7Wonders of the World in 2007.
The Taj Mahal is an example of Mughal architecture – a mixture of building design ideas from Islamic Indian, Persian (old Iran), and Muslim arts.
The Taj Mahal was constructed with materials from all over the world, and over 20,000 people were used to move building materials. It is generally thought that Ustad Ahmad Lahauri was in charge of the construction. The construction was finished in 1653. 
The Taj Mahal had 2 million visitors in 2001 and in in 2014 there were 7-8 million visitors.
Many people think it is one of the most beautiful buildings ever built. However, it is slowly being damaged by acid rain. A nearby oil refinery has been blamed for some of the damage. In 1996, the Indian Supreme Court said that local industry was harming the Taj Mahal. The court set up an area of 10,400 square meters around the Taj Mahal called the Taj Trapezium Zone. Industries within this zone must use natural gas instead of coal.

</doc>
<doc id="21521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21521" title="Aryan">
Aryan

Aryan is the name that an ancient people of Europe, Iran (Greater Iran) and India called themselves. Descendants of the Aryans include speakers of Sanskrit and Avestan which are related to the Indo-European languages. About three thousand and five hundred years ago, both Iranians and Indians used the name "Aryan" to mean their shared ancestors, as well as "nobles."
The Avestan name "Airiianəm vaēǰō" "Aryan expanse", is a reference in the Zoroastrian Avesta (Vendidad, Fargard 1) to the Aryans’ mother country and one of Ahura Mazda's "sixteen perfect lands". Other Avestan names are "airyō.šayana", the “Aryan people”, and "airyā daiŋˊhāvā" “the Aryan lands”. These names were known to old Greek writers as "Ariana". Also the Sanskrit name "Āryāvarta" "abode of the Aryans", was a region in north of today's India. The Middle Persian name of the Sassanian Empire, an empire that ruled Persia from the 3rd century to the 7th century, was "Eran-shar" meaning the "Aryan Empire". Today, the name "Iran" is simply the Persian word for "Aryan".
In the late 18th century, Europeans began using the term "Aryan" to refer to the original prehistoric Proto-Indo-Europeans and their descendents up to the present day (i.e., the Indo-European peoples—those Caucasians who are speakers of the Indo-European languages). This was the most common definition of "Aryan" in the 19th century and early 20th century. This was the definition used by H.G. Wells in his best-selling 1920 book "The Outline of History". Many young people consider this definition obsolete and politically incorrect but it is still used by some older people, such as in a 1989 article in Scientific American by Colin Renfrew advocating the Anatolian hypothesis in which he uses the word 'Aryan' in its traditional meaning as a synonym for 'Indo-European'.
In the late 19th century, some Europeans began to use the name "Aryan" for only the Nordic peoples of Europe (one branch of the Indo-European peoples), as a "pure," "noble" and "superior" race they claimed were descended from the original Aryans.
The theory that the Aryans first came from Europe became especially accepted in Germany. It was widely believed that the "Vedic Aryans" were the same people as the Goths, Vandals and other ancient Germanic peoples who brought the Western Roman Empire to an end. This idea was often mixed with anti-Semitic ideas. The Master Race theory became a main idea for Nazis. After the Nazis took power in Germany in 1933, these ideas led to horrible persecutions of the Jews which culminated in the Holocaust.
The idea of racism that the Nazi theory means has been totally put aside by modern scientists, some of whom also disagree with the idea that the original Aryans ever lived in Europe. Most other scientists do maintain that the original Proto-Indo-Europeans did live about 5,000 years ago in the area in Europe east of Ukraine and north of the Caucasus Mountains and that the original Aryans (the "Indo-Iranians" or eastern branch of the Indo-European peoples) did migrate east to Iran and India from there, and the original ancestors of the modern "European peoples" (the western or "European" branch of the Indo-European peoples) did migrate west from there. This is called the Kurgan hypothesis.

</doc>
<doc id="21523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21523" title="Venetian">
Venetian

Venetian might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21531" title="Gypsy">
Gypsy

Gypsy may mean:
In music:
In fiction:
Other meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="21532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21532" title="Uzbekistan">
Uzbekistan

Uzbekistan is a country in Central Asia. Its capital and largest city is Tashkent.
There are about 26,593,000 people living in Uzbekistan. The neighboring countries are Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. It is a doubly landlocked country, of which there are only two in the world.
Most people in Uzbekistan speak a language called Uzbek, a Turkic language similar to Uyghur and Turkish. In the Uzbek language, Uzbekistan is called "O‘zbekiston" and it means "the land of the true nobles".
Uzbekistan has a long history. Humans first lived in Uzbekistan from before the 2nd millenium BC.
The current president today is Shavkat Mirziyoyev.
Human rights in Uzbekistan are 'atrocious' according to Human Rights Watch
Uzbekistan is divided into twelve provinces, one autonomous republic, and one independent city. The provinces are divided into districts.

</doc>
<doc id="21533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21533" title="1200s">
1200s


</doc>
<doc id="21534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21534" title="United Arab Emirates">
United Arab Emirates

The United Arab Emirates or the UAE is a country in the Middle East. Its capital is Abu Dhabi which is the largest city. UAE is made up of seven emirates which used to have a special peace treaty (or "truce") with the United Kingdom. This is why their old name was the Trucial States.
The country's official language is Arabic. The country has some traditions and one of them is eating dates. That is why date palms are often grown in the UAE.
The seven emirates of the UAE are:

</doc>
<doc id="21538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538" title="Can">
Can

Can could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21539" title="Wok">
Wok

A wok is a Chinese pan used for cooking . It has a round bottom. The most common use for the wok is stir frying, though it can also be used for deep frying, smoking, braising, roasting, grilling, and steaming.
In Indonesia, the wok is known as a "wadjang", "kuali" in Malaysia, and "kawali" (small wok) and "kawa" (big wok) in the Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="21540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21540" title="United States Navy">
United States Navy

The United States Navy is part of the United States Armed Forces (the military of the USA).
The navy mainly deals with ocean-based military actions.
The navy was called the Continental Navy from 1775 until Congress established the Department of the Navy on April 30, 1798. A person (or member) in the navy is called a sailor.

</doc>
<doc id="21542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21542" title="Pro bono">
Pro bono

Pro bono is a Latin phrase meaning "for [the] good", that is used to mean that a legal professional (lawyer) who would otherwise be paid money for his work,
works without being paid, for the benefit of society,
typically on behalf of a person or organization who cannot pay for some reason, such as poverty.

</doc>
<doc id="21543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21543" title="Ziggy">
Ziggy

Ziggy could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550" title="Chemical formula">
Chemical formula

A chemical formula is a way that chemists describe a molecule. The formula says what atoms, and how many of each type, are in the molecule. Sometimes the formula shows how the atoms are linked, and sometimes the formula shows how the atoms are arranged in space. 
The letter shows what chemical element each atom is. The subscript shows the number of each type of atom. For example, hydrogen peroxide has the formula HO. Methane has one carbon (C) atom and four hydrogen atoms; the chemical formula is CH. The sugar molecule glucose has six carbon atoms, twelve hydrogen atoms, and six oxygen atoms, so its chemical formula is CHO.
Chemical formulas are used in chemical equations to describe chemical reactions.
The 19th-century Swedish chemist Jöns Jacob Berzelius worked out this system for writing chemical formulas.
Chemical formulas are another way to represent the number of atoms. Chemical formulas are used to represent kinds of atoms in a combination. Chemical formulas use subscripts to tell how many of each atom are present in a combination. Subscripts are small numbers to the lower right of a symbol. They represent the number of atoms of that element in the equation. Before writing Chemical formulas, write down the symbol of each atom present in your equation. Writing chemical formula is a way of informing the chemical figure. It is most easily found in the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart of all well-known parts. Use the periodic table to reference the figure that cannot be remembered.
Different elements are found in the periodic table. Each element has a family. An element family is an arrangement of elements. This element family has common properties. They are sharing the same characteristics.
Elements are displayed in order. Each element is put into families. There are three main categories such as metals, nonmetals, and semimetals. Each element family is displayed by the number of electrons in the outer shell. They can also display the same properties and valence electrons.

</doc>
<doc id="21551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21551" title="Harvard University">
Harvard University

Harvard University is a private university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA and a member of the Ivy League. Harvard was started on September 8, 1636 and is the oldest university in the United States.
Eight Presidents of the United States have graduated from Harvard college and schools.
In 2013 QS ranked Harvard as the second best university in the world.
Harvard is on the Charles River. Some students go to the Charles River for rowing. On the other side of the Charles River is the city of Boston. Boston's subway system has a stop at Harvard. Some of Harvard's graduate schools are in Boston, but most of Harvard's schools are in Cambridge. Together, these schools are Harvard University.
The school color is crimson, which is a dark red color. 
Harvard has over $30 billion and derivatives that gave it exposure to $7.2 billion in commodities and foreign stocks. 
Harvard has many libraries like Widener Library. There are other facilities like skating rinks and the Malkin Athletic Center where students can swim and exercise.
Another famous school close to Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts is the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Harvard's president is Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard's first woman president. The president before her, Lawrence Summers, was a controversial president because of things he said about women and the way he ran things. In 2006, Mr. Summers told Harvard's students and professors that he would resign in the summer and no longer serve Harvard as president. Mr. Summers is an economist and now works as the Director of the White House's National Economic Council for President Barack Obama.

</doc>
<doc id="21553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21553" title="Tamil language">
Tamil language

Tamil is a Dravidian language. It is spoken in the Tamil Nadu state of India and in some parts of Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia, USA, Australia, UAE, London, new York, UK and Germany. It is in the southern branch of the Dravidian language family. It is a classical language. It is one of world's oldest literary languages. It has existed for at least 200,000 years. The oldest text found in Tamil is Tolkāppiyam. Tamil is the one of the oldest living languages in the world. It is spoken by almost 90 million people.gamesGeorge
The script of the language is very old, making it hard to read. It has 12 consonants, 18 vowels, and the "āytam" ஃ, which is neither a consonant nor a vowel. The "āytam "can be used with other letters to represent sounds not in the Tamil script, such as" "'f"'. "The consonants and vowels can mix to form compound letters. Altogether, there are 247 sounds/sets of sounds in the Tamil script. Tamil, like English, is written from left to right.
It has been said that most of the other Indian scripts are basically derived from the letters of Tamil. In a few cases, the words themselves were used in other Indian languages for better understanding. Tamil numbers have certainly shaped the numbers in other Dravidian language family.
Tamil is the dominant language in Tamil Nadu, India, and Northern Province, Sri Lanka. It is also spoken in places like the United States, Germany, Fiji, Indonesia, frence, Africa and Thailand. This is because of the Tamil diaspora.

</doc>
<doc id="21555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21555" title="Kerala">
Kerala

Kerala is a state in the Republic of India. It is in the south-west of India, with the Arabian Sea to its west. 
The states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are to the east. The capital city of the state is Thiruvananthapuram. The land area of Kerala is 15,005 mi (38,863 km), which is bigger than Bhutan but smaller than Switzerland. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone. 
There are 14 districts in Kerala. They are Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod.
Most of the people in Kerala speak Malayalam.(Dravidian language)
Kerala is one of the most beautiful places in India. Kerala is known for traditional arts and people enjoy traditional, percussion-filled music. They also enjoy tribal ceremonies, martial arts, and even sports activities such as soccer, cricket, and badminton. Most of the people have access to the internet, TVs, newspapers, and books. The average amount of reading per week is about seven hours. The literacy rate is approximately 96.9%.
Kerala is one of the biggest tourist attractions in India, both for Indians as well as foreigners. It has beautiful beaches, and extensive backwater. Kerala is also known for its diverse nature.

</doc>
<doc id="21556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21556" title="Tamil">
Tamil

Tamil might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="21557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21557" title="Malayalam">
Malayalam

Malayalam is a language. Most people that speak Malayalam live in Kerala, in India. A speaker of Malayalam is called a "Malayali". Sometimes the language, and its speaker, are called as "Malabari." 
Malayalam (/malayALam/) is the main language of the South Indian state of Kerala and also of the Lakshadweep Islands (Laccadives) of the west coast of India. 
Malayalis (speakers of Malayalam), who - males and females alike - are almost totally literate, constitute 4 percent of the population of India and 96 percent of the population of Kerala (29.01 million in 1991). 
In terms of the number of speakers, Malayalam ranks eighth among the 18 major languages of India. 
Malyalam language has 52 phonemes. A few of the phonemes are unique for Malayalam.
The word /malayALam/ originally meant mountainous country (/mala/- mountain + /aLam/-place). Tamil Nadu is its neighbour on the south and east and Karnataka on the north and east.

</doc>
<doc id="21558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21558" title="Coimbatore">
Coimbatore

Coimbatore (Tamil: கோயம்புத்தூர்), also known as Kovai (Tamil: கோவை), is the second largest city in the Tamil Nadu, after Chennai. It is the administrative headquarters of the Coimbatore District and a major textile and engineering hub of South India. It forms a part of the ancient Kongu Nadu region of South India, where its people were the first to establish a territorial state. Coimbatore city, including its suburban areas has a population of 2.4 million people.
It is referred as the Manchester of South India in business circles, and has textile mills, engineering firms, automobile parts manufacturers, health care facilities and educational institutions. The hill stations of Ooty, Coonoor and Valparai are close to the city, making it a good tourist attraction throughout the year. The city is on the banks of the Noyyal River and is close to the Siruvani Waterfalls.
Avinasi is a nearby town where a famous Shiva Temple is located.

</doc>
<doc id="21559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21559" title="Category:Tamil Nadu">
Category:Tamil Nadu

Tamil Nadu, India

</doc>
<doc id="21560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21560" title="Madurai">
Madurai

Madurai is a city in Tamil Nadu, India. It was the capital of the earlier Pandyan Kingdom.
Meenakshi Amman Temple, Oyiram Kal Mandabam (Hall of Thousand Pillars) are some of the important tourist places in Madurai.
Madurai always considered to be a good pilgrim center. Tourists from various part of the country and world are coming to madurai and enjoying a historical excellence.
The main attraction of the city is meenakshi amman temple. Various other tourist and pilgrimage places also there such as Alagar Koil, Thiruparangkundram, Palarmuthir solai (means garden with fruits), Thirumalai naicker Mahal (palace of Naickers), Teppakulam (a square tank almost half a kilometer length as one side length), gandi museum (where we can find blood spotted final dress of Gandiji), etc.
The city is said to be as City of Festivals almost all the days in year is having at least a small festival. The city is also called 'thoonganagaram' which means Non-sleeping city.
Road side shops are very famous in Madurai where all can get good foods in cheaper costs. Jigardhanda, a typical Muslim cool drink is one of the famous drink from madurai. 

</doc>
<doc id="21561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21561" title="Assam">
Assam

Assam () is a state in the north eastern region of India. It has an area of 78,438 km² (30,285 mi²). It is bigger than Panama but smaller than the Czech Republic. There is one major river (Brahamputra) that flows through the length of the state. The state lies on the foothills of the Himalayas. There are two international borders touched by Assam: Bhutan and Bangladesh. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North-east Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21562" title="Arunachal Pradesh">
Arunachal Pradesh

Arunachal Pradesh is a state in the Republic of India.
1,091,117 people lived in this state as reported in census 2001. The total area is 32,333 mi² (83,743 km²), it is bigger than United Arab Emirates but smaller than Austria. 
The country that owns this region is disputed. The People's Republic of China says that they own part of the region and call it "South Tibet." The northern boundary, about 550 miles long, in dispute between India and China, is known as the McMahon Line, the other being the dispute over Aksai Chin. In 1962, the Sino-Indian War was fought here. The war was short and ended in India's defeat. However, China withdrew back to the modern borders voluntarily. They still say that they own the region., Most of the population of Arunachal Pradesh is of Asiatic origin and shows physical affinities with the peoples of Tibet and the Myanmar hill region. 

</doc>
<doc id="21563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21563" title="Bihar">
Bihar

Bihar is a state in the Republic of India, covering an area of 38,202 mi² (99,200 km²). It is bigger than Hungary but smaller than South Korea. The capital is Patna. Bihar is bordered by the Indian states of Uttar Pradesh to the west, Jharkhand to the south, and West Bengal to the east. To the north of Bihar is the country of Nepal. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the East Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21564" title="Chhattisgarh">
Chhattisgarh

Chhattisgarh is a state within the Republic of India. It occupies . It is bigger than Greece but smaller than Tajikistan. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the East Indian zone.
The capital at present is Raipur which would change to 'Naya Raipur' near Raipur. It has eighteen districts: Raigarh, Bilaspur, Bijapur, Korba, Durg, Janjgir, Raipur, Koria, Sarguja, Bastar, Dantewada, Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon, Kanker, Mahasamund, Dhamtari, Jashpur and Kabirdham (Kawardha).
The main languages spoken are Hindi and Chhattisgarhi. The main religion is Hindu.

</doc>
<doc id="21565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21565" title="Gujarat">
Gujarat

Gujarat (, ) is a state within the Republic of India. Gandhinagar is the capital of Gujarat. This city is named after Mahatma Gandhi. Its area is 75,686 mi² (196,077 km²), excluding the Kori Creek of the Rann of Kachchh: which is disputed by Pakistan , but it includes the Kutch District, in terms of area it is bigger than Syria but smaller than Senegal. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the West Indian zone. Surat, Bharuch, Ahmedabad, Vapi, Badoda, Porbandar, Rajkot, Jamnagar are some important cities in Gujarat. Champaner, Gondal, Bhavnagar, Utelia, Zainabad, Bhuj, Sasangir are some tourist places. People in Gujarat are mainly engaged in Agriculture and business.

</doc>
<doc id="21566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21566" title="Haryana">
Haryana

Haryana (Doabi: ਹਰਿਆਣਾ, ਇੰਡੀਆ) is a state in the Republic of India. It is the birthplace of Hinduism. The main language spoken in the area is Haryanvi. The area is . It is larger than Denmark but smaller than Estonia. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21567" title="Himachal Pradesh">
Himachal Pradesh

Himachal Pradesh () is a state in northern India. Simla is the capital of Himachal Pradesh. It covers an area of 56,019 km² (21,629 mi²), although the border with China is still disputed. The land contains high mountains. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone.
Himachal Pradesh was part of Indian Punjab before 1966.
Himachal Pradesh is divided into 12 districts. These are further divided into 55 sub-divisions, 82 tehsils and 35 sub-tehsils.

</doc>
<doc id="21568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21568" title="Jammu and Kashmir">
Jammu and Kashmir

Jammu and Kashmir or Indian administered Kashmir (Ladakhi: , ) is the northernmost state of India. When people talk about this state, they sometimes call it "Indian-administered Kashmir". The state covers and is mostly in the Himalayan mountains. In terms of land area it is bigger than the Kingdom of Bhutan but smaller than Switzerland. Jammu and Kashmir used be a British protectorate in 1860. Jammu and Kashmir shares an international border with the states of Himachal Pradesh and Doab in Republic of India to the south and with the People's Republic of China to the north and east and the Pakistani administered territories of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan, to the west and northwest respectively.
There is an on-going dispute and conflict over the territory of Jammu and Kashmir, since both the countries gained Independence in 1947. Jammu and Kashmir as a whole is the only Muslim-majority state with 77% Muslims within the Secular Hindu-majority modern Republic of India.
Jammu and Kashmir has a Muslim majority population. Though Islam is practiced by about 67% of the population of the state and by 97% of the population of the Kashmir valley, the state has large communities of Buddhists, Hindus (inclusive of Meghwal and Sikhs.
Jammu and Kashmir consists of three divisions: Jammu region, the Kashmir Valley and Ladakh. Srinagar is the summer capital, and Jammu its winter capital. The Kashmir valley, often called "paradise on Earth", is famous for its beautiful mountainous landscape. Jammu's numerous holy shrines attracts tens of thousands of Hindu and Muslim pilgrims every year. Ladakh, also known as "Little Tibet", is renowned for its remote mountain beauty and Buddhist culture.

</doc>
<doc id="21569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21569" title="Jharkhand">
Jharkhand

Jharkhand (, ) is a state in the Republic of India. About 20,000,000 people live in there. The state covers . It is bigger than Sierra Leone but smaller than Panama. It has many villages and towns. Ranchi is the capital city. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the East Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21570" title="Madhya Pradesh">
Madhya Pradesh

Madhya Pradesh is a state in the Republic of India. The state has an area of . It is bigger than Italy but smaller than Oman. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the West Indian zone. The capital of the state is Bhopal. The largest city is Indore.
Other main cities are Jabalpur and Ujjain. Ujjain is well known for mythological reasons. Mandav, Bhojpur and Panchmadi are the main tourist attractions.
To the north of Madhya Pradesh is the state of Uttar Pradesh and to the northwest is the state of Rajasthan, while Maharashtra is to the southwest.

</doc>
<doc id="21571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21571" title="Manipur">
Manipur

Manipur is a state within the Republic of India. It has area of 8,628 mi² (22,347 km²). In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North-east Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21572" title="Meghalaya">
Meghalaya

Meghalaya () is a state within the Republic of India. Occupying an area of 8,660 mi² (22,429 km²), bigger than the State of Israel but smaller than Belize. Its capital is Shillong. Meghalaya's population is 2,318,822. The population of Shillong was 314,610 in 2001. There are problems in Meghalaya arise from the divide between tribals and non tribal settlers, identity issues and growing corruption besides the fear of being reduced to minority by native tribals. The activity status is classified as active. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North-east Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21573" title="Mizoram">
Mizoram

Mizoram is a state in the Republic of India. It is in the eastern region beyond Bangladesh. It covers an area of . It is bigger than the nation of El Salvador but smaller than the State of Israel. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North-east Indian zone.
The word "Mizoram" means "land of the Mizo people". It is one of the Seven Sister States in North Eastern India, sharing borders with the states of Tripura, Assam, Manipur and with the neighbouring countries of Bangladesh and Myanmar. Mizoram became the 23rd state of India on 20 February 1987. The capital of Mizoram is Aizawl.

</doc>
<doc id="21574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21574" title="Nagaland">
Nagaland

Nagaland is a northeastern state in the Republic of India. It has an area of . It is bigger than East Timor but smaller than Swaziland. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North-east Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21575" title="Odisha">
Odisha

Odisha, formerly known as Orissa is a state on the east coast of the Republic of India, an area of . The official languages of Odisha are Oriya, Hindi and English. It is about the same size as Bangladesh. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the East Indian zone. Odisha is the ninth largest Indian State and the eleventh most populous. Popular tourist destinations include Puri and Bhubaneswar. Other major cities are Cuttack, Sambalpur, Berhampur, Dhenkanal and Raurkela. Biju Patnaik International Airport is Odisha's only airport. The current Chief Minister is Naveen Patnaik.
Capital- Bhubaneswar
State Song- Bande Utkala Janani

</doc>
<doc id="21576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21576" title="Punjab (India)">
Punjab (India)

State of Punjab or "(Doab India), Land of Two Rivers" () (Doabi:ਦੋਆਬ, ਇੰਡੀਆ) is a state in the northern Republic of India. About 24 million people live there. Its national capital city is Chandigarh. The city is a separate territory, because it is also used be the capital of Haryana. The state is in the Punjab region. It covers an area of 19,445 mi² or 50,362 km². It is bigger than Slovakia but smaller than Costa Rica. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone. The state of Punjab has 22 districts.
The word "Doab" is a combination of the Indo-Iranian words "Doab" ("two") and "āb" ("water"), and thus the (land of) "two rivers". The two rivers are the Beas and Sutlej. Sometimes, in English, there can be a definite article before the name i.e. "the Doaba". The name is also sometimes spelled as "Duoab" or "Douaab" or "Doaab".
It originally contained 5 rivers before partition, british influence and the influence of the indian government, so therefore its name came from the Punjabi word for five (Panj/Punj) and the word for river/water (ab).
All of India was once ruled by the British Empire. The Indians wanted freedom, but the Hindus, Sikhs and the Muslims of India always argued. So it was decided to divide the country into two parts -- one part for Muslims and one part for Hindus and Sikhs. In 1947 Punjab (British India), which was a province of India, was divided into West Punjab and East Punjab (which the state is home to the active independence movement of Khalistan by the Sikh nationalists). East Punjab went to the Republic of modern India, and West Punjab went to Islamic Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="21577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21577" title="Rajasthan">
Rajasthan

Rajasthan () is a state in northwestern India. It is the largest state of India in terms of land area; 132,150 mi² or 342,269 km². It is bigger than the Republic of the Congo but smaller than Germany. In traditional India geography it falls under the North Indian zone. The Thar Desert covers most parts of the state. The capital of the state is city of Jaipur.

</doc>
<doc id="21578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21578" title="Tripura">
Tripura

Tripura () is a state in eastern India. It is a Disputed Territory claimed as "Chittagonian Plains" by Bangladesh. Bangladesh says that as Tripura was an independent kingdom and never part of British India, the Republic of India had no right to annex the country after the death of its last king. It covers an area of .It is the 3rd smallest state of India. It is bigger than Lebanon but smaller than Kosovo.

</doc>
<doc id="21579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21579" title="Uttarakhand">
Uttarakhand

Uttarakhand (2000-2006: Uttaranchal), historically part of Nepali heritage, is now a state in northern India. The state had 8,479,562 people as of the 2001 census. It covers an area of . It is bigger than Bosnia and Herzegovina but smaller than Croatia, even though the border with China is still disputed. The land contains high mountains. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone.

</doc>
<doc id="21580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21580" title="Uttar Pradesh">
Uttar Pradesh

Uttar Pradesh (, ) is a state in northern India. For short, people call it UP. Lucknow is the capital city of UP. 
The population of the state is 199,581,477 (census 2011). It covers an area of 93,933 mi² (243,286 km²). It is bigger than the United Kingdom but smaller than Guinea. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone.
Uttar Pradesh has a long border with Nepal to the north. Next to it are also the Indian states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar. There are two geographical main regions:-
The climate of Uttar Pradesh is mostly subtropical. However weather conditions change a lot depending on where one lives and the season.
"Temperature": The average temperatures vary from 12.5–17.5°C (54.5–63.5°F) in January to 27.5–32.5°C (81.5–90.5°F) in May and June. The highest temperature recorded in the State was 49.9°C (121.8°F). It was at Gonda on May 8, 1958.
"Rainfall": Rainfall is between 1,000 and 2,000 mm (40–80 inches) in the east and between 600 and 1,000 mm (24–40 inches) in the west. Most of the rain is due to the southwest monsoon. It lasts from June to September. Consequently, floods are a problem during those seasons. They badly damage crops and property.
"Droughts": They occur when the monsoon does not come in the usual season. It leads to crop failure.
"Snowfall": In the Himalayan region of the State it usually snows from 3 to 5 metres (10 to15 feet) between December and March.
Airways: The state has four important airports and 23 air strips. They are in Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi. Lucknow is the biggest and most important airport of the state. 
Railways: Almost all the major cities and even some smaller cities are linked. The state has the largest railway network in the country. Its total length is 8,546 km (2006). It has the sixth largest railway density.
Roadways: The state has the largest road network in the country. The biggest is Maharashtra. There are 31 National Highways (NH). In total they are of 4,942 km (8.5% of total NH length in India). It has the seventh highest road density in the India (1,027 km per 1000 km in 2002). It also has the largest surfaced urban road network in the country (50,721 km, as on 2002). Cities of Kanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly, Allahabad, Varanasi, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Mathura, Agra and Ghazipur are connected to many National Highways.
Waterways: The river Ganges - from Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh) to Haldia (West Bengal) - has been declared as National Waterway (NW)-I and 600 km of the total NW-I lies in Uttar Pradesh.

</doc>
<doc id="21581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21581" title="West Bengal">
West Bengal

West Bengal (, ) is a state in India. It is in the eastern part of the country. West Bengal is the fourth most populous state in India. It is also the seventh most populous sub-national entity in the world. West Bengal is the sixth largest contributor to India's GDP. 
Both West Bengal and Bangladesh are parts of historical and geographic region of Bengal. Kolkata is the capital city of West Bengal. In 2001, 80,221,171 people lived in West Bengal. With an area of 34,267 mi² (88,752 km²), it is bigger than Serbia but smaller than Jordan. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the East Indian zone.
West Bengal has a tropical climate, so it is very hot and humid in summer and cool in winter. The people who live here are called Bengalis. Bengalis also live in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is a country to the east of West Bengal
All of India was once ruled by the British Empire. The Indians wanted freedom, but the Hindus and the Muslims of India always argued. So it was decided to divide the country into two parts—one part for Muslims and the other part for Hindus. In 1947 Bengal, which was a province of India, was divided into West Bengal and East Bengal,which is now called Bangladesh. West Bengal went to India, and East Bengal went to Pakistan and was called East Pakistan. In 1971, Bangladesh became independent, as a result of the Bangladesh Liberation War. 
Famous people from West Bengal include:
 

</doc>
