<doc id="17311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17311" title="Abigail and Brittany Hensel">
Abigail and Brittany Hensel

Abigail Loraine Hensel and Brittany Lee Hensel (born March 7, 1990 in Minnesota, United States) are conjoined twins with mostly one body and two heads. They are joined at the pelvis and each one controls one side of their body, which means they have to do things together. Brittany is on the left, and Abigail is on the right. They have two spines that join at the pelvis. They have two stomachs and four lungs, and at birth they had a third arm in between their heads. The third arm was not properly developed, so it was removed.
They currently star in their own reality series on TLC.

</doc>
<doc id="17312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17312" title="52 BC">
52 BC

Year 52 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pompeius and Scipio (or, less frequently, year 702 "Ab urbe condita"). This year has been called 52 BC since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the most common method in Europe for naming years.

</doc>
<doc id="17314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17314" title="Category:1962 movies">
Category:1962 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="17315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17315" title="Category:1960 books">
Category:1960 books

This category is for books that were first printed in 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="17316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17316" title="Category:1990 births">
Category:1990 births


</doc>
<doc id="17317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17317" title="Category:1990s births">
Category:1990s births


</doc>
<doc id="17318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17318" title="Category:1998 albums">
Category:1998 albums

Albums released in 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="17319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17319" title="Category:1998 in music">
Category:1998 in music


</doc>
<doc id="17320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17320" title="Category:Brazilian people">
Category:Brazilian people


</doc>
<doc id="17322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17322" title="Category:1954 movies">
Category:1954 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1954.

</doc>
<doc id="17329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17329" title="Cape Town">
Cape Town

Cape Town is the legislative capital and the second biggest city of South Africa.
It is on the south-west coast. It has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate.
It was originally called the "Cape of Storms" by Bartolomeu Dias in 1486, a Portuguese explorer but was changed by King John II of Portugal to "Cape of Good Hope".
The city's most predominant feature is Table Mountain, a mountain with a flat top.

</doc>
<doc id="17330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17330" title="Hard and soft drugs">
Hard and soft drugs

Certain kinds of drugs that act on the nervous system are sometimes loosely classified. Usually there are the following categories:
In the Netherlands, there are situations where the use of some "soft drugs" is tolerated.

</doc>
<doc id="17332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17332" title="Tehran">
Tehran

Tehran (or Teheran, ), is the capital of Iran and the center of Tehran Province.
The origin of the name Tehran is unknown. The word Tehran means "warm mountain slope". Tehran is at the foot of the Alborz mountain range.
Tehran is the 32nd National Capital of Iran. It is the largest city in the Middle East & Western Asia. It is the 16th most populated city in the world. It has about 8 million people. Tehran has 4 counties: Tehran, Shemiranat, Rey & Islamshahr. Tehran has a large network of highways.
Tehran was well known as a village in the 9th century, but was less well-known than the city of Rhages (Ray). Tehran today, replaces Ray, the ancient capital of Iran destroyed by the Mongols in 1220 A.D., the ruins of which can be seen 6 km south of Tehran. In 1869/70 A.D., Tehran acquired considerable prestige and was enclosed in an 8 km rampart which had 12 gates.
During the Safavid period, Shah Safi created a military base in Tehran, and had two great towers erected therein, which became known as "Ghaleh Meydan" and "Ghaleh Hessa". "Karim Khan Zand" lived in Tehran. for 4 years. In the early 18th century, "Karim Khan Zand", ordered a palace, and a government office to be built in Tehran. Later he moved his government capital to Shiraz.
Tehran became the capital of Iran, in 1795, when Agha Mohammad Khan, became King. It is still the capital. During the reign of Agha Mohammad khan, the government headquarters were built north of "Emam_zade Zayd". Agha Mohammad Khan became King of Iran in "Khalvat Karimkhani Palace" in Tehran. During the reign of Fath Ali Shah, the soltani mosque, the Abbas_abad bazaar, and the Ilchi garden (the site of today`s Russian embassy) were added. Nasser_e_din_Shah changed the palace from center of Tehran to Sadabad. He changed the view of Tehran from a town to a modern capital.
In the Russia Embassy in Iran, the "Tehran Conference" was held. The Tehran Conference (codenamed "Eureka") was the meeting of Joseph Stalin, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill between November 28 and December 1, 1943. Most of it was held at the Soviet Embassy in Tehran, Iran. It was the first World War II conference amongst the Big Three (the Soviet Union, the United States, and the United Kingdom) where Stalin was present. The aim of the Tehran conference was to plan the final strategy for the war against Nazi Germany and its allies. The discussion was mostly about the opening of a second front in Western Europe.
During 1980–88, Tehran was attacked by scud missiles and air strikes. After the Islamic Revolution in Iran and during war between Iran and Iraq, many people left Tehran. In recent years, many professional people who lived in Tehran, left Iran for freedom and a better life in other countries. Traffic, crime, drugs and lack of freedom in Tehran, are most important reasons.
Tehran is the center of most Iranian industries and services. Modern industries of this city include the making of automobiles, electronics, weaponry, textiles, sugar, cement, and chemicals. Tehran is also a leading center for the sale of carpets and furniture.
Tehran has a semi-arid (steppe) climate (BSh in the Köppen climate classification). Summers are hot and dry; winters are cold with moderate precipitation, which also falls as snow. Spring and autumn are mild with moderate rainfall.
The highest recorded temperature was 156.2°F (69°C) in 1946, and the lowest recorded temperature was -272.2°F (-169°C) in 1972
In this vast city, many historic sites can be admired, the most famous of which are the palaces of Sadabad, Niavaran, Sahebqaranyyeh and Golestan, the mosque of Seyyed Azizollah, the great Bazar of Tehran and many museums, such as Reza Abbasi museum, the carpet museum of Iran, Abguineh (glass and ceramics) museum, the Azadi museum, etc. Tehran has 740 parks.
Leisure and sport resorts around Tehran include Abali, Dizin, Gajereh and Shemshak ski stations, the dam water ski station and the slopes of Darband and Shemiran.

</doc>
<doc id="17333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17333" title="Philadelphia">
Philadelphia

Philadelphia is a large city in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. It is the biggest city in Pennsylvania, and the fifth biggest city in the United States of America. In spoken English, the city is sometimes called Philly. 
The population of the city was 1,517,550 people in 2000, in 2010 census it was up to 1,526.006 people. Philadelphia was the capital of the United States from 1790 to 1800. It was replaced by Washington, D.C. in 1800 after the White House was built.
Philadelphia is famous because it has many places tourists like to visit, like the Liberty Bell, Independence Hall, and Christ Church. 
Before Europeans came to the area, Philadelphia was home to the Lenape people. The first Europeans to come were the Dutch, who built towns and a fort in the area. The English took over the city in 1664. In 1781, Charles II of England gave a large piece of land to William Penn, to pay back some money he owed to Penn's father. William Penn had a dream of a land where people would be free to live and work no matter what religion they were. He built a city in the new land called Philadelphia. 
Soon Philadelphia was the largest city in North America. The first library and the first hospital in the country were built in Philadelphia. Many ships sailed in and out of the city's port, and people came to the city to buy and sell all sorts of things.
In 1774, for the first time, a group of men met in Philadelphia to talk about making a new government without a king. The English were not happy about this and soon there was a war between the Americans and the English, called the American Revolutionary War. In 1776, the Americans once again met in Philadelphia and signed the "Declaration of Independence". which said 
that all men were equal and had the same rights. It said that if people had a bad government they had a right to change it. On July 4th, they rang the Liberty Bell to call all the people of Philadelphia to come and hear the Declaration, and they sent copies of it to all of the other cities in America. Later, when the Americans won the war, a group of them came to Philadelphia to write the United States Constitution which states the most important laws of the United States. 
One of the most famous people in Philadelphia at the time of the American Revolution was Benjamin Franklin. He started a newspaper and invented many things, such as bifocal glasses. He started a library that was free for everyone to use, and also a free hospital. He helped to write the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitutio inventions and his ideas.
Philadelphia is in the state of Pennsylvania, named after William Penn. It is on the west bank of the Delaware River, across from New Jersey. Another big river, the Schuylkill, flows into the Delaware River at Philadelphia. The city has only a few small hills, and most of it is flat. The summers are usually hot in Philadelphia and the winters are cold.really 
Philadelphia has a large art museum, the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It also has some smaller museums of art, such as the Academy of Fine Arts, and the Barnes Foundation. The Franklin Institute is a science museum named after Benjamin Franklin. The Philadelphia Orchestra is famous for its concerts. Some famous jazz musicians, such as John Coltrane, came from Philadelphia.
Independence National Historic Park is in the oldest part of Philadelphia. Most of the buildings from the time when American was fighting for its freedom are there. Independence Hall is where the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States were written. Nearby is a building where the Liberty Bell is kept. In the same neighborhood, there are many houses dating from the days of the American Revolution. Elfreth's Alley is one of the oldest streets in the United States. Christ Church is the church where many famous early Americans worshipped. 

</doc>
<doc id="17334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17334" title="The Clash">
The Clash

The Clash were an English punk band. The band was formed in London in 1976. Their lead singer was Joe Strummer (1952-2002). The group was one of the most popular punk bands in England in the mid-1970s.
Although The Clash are known as an early punk rock band, they were willing to experiment with different styles, which they added to their music. Some of these styles were ska, reggae, and funk. Lyrics in their songs often dealt with political issues or stories in the news.
In 2003, the band entered the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" made a list of the Top 500 Rock Songs of All Time, and "London Calling", a song by The Clash, was listed as song #15 on the list. No song by a punk rock band was higher on the list.

</doc>
<doc id="17338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17338" title="Red Hot Chili Peppers">
Red Hot Chili Peppers

Red Hot Chili Peppers is an American rock band. The band started in 1983 in Los Angeles, California. The state of California has been a theme in many of their songs. The members of the band are singer Anthony Kiedis, bass guitarist Flea, guitarist Josh Klinghoffer, and drummer Chad Smith.
The Red Hot Chili Peppers have released ten studio albums. Their early albums consisted of a mix of Rock and Funk, and were not very successful. The band's membership changed several times during this period, but Kiedis and Flea have been with the band since it started. When Frusciante and Smith joined in 1989, Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", was successful. It was the band's first album to appear on the "Billboard" music chart. While Red Hot Chili Peppers were on tour in 1992 after their fifth and most successful album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", Frusciante left the band because of a drug addiction.
Dave Navarro became the new guitarist after Frusciante. Navarro and the other members of Red Hot Chili Peppers did not work together very well. The other members asked Navarro to leave the band in 1998, after one album, called "One Hot Minute". At this time, Frusciante had been making albums by himself. He was also suffering from a heroin addiction. When he was feeling better, Flea asked him to join Red Hot Chili Peppers again and Frusciante said yes. The band's next album, "Californication" (1999), was one of their most popular so far. Red Hot Chili Peppers kept recording and released another album soon afterwards. In 2002, they released "By the Way", which was also successful. After this, the band went on a concert tour around the world. While they were doing so they released a best of album. After the tour, the band recorded and released the album "Stadium Arcadium" in 2006, which consisted of twenty-eight songs. After the tour of this album, the band activity was paralyzed for some time, because Frusciante left the band to, again, focus on his career. The band went out to find a new guitarist, with Klinghoffer joining them. They have produced a new album, called "I'm With You", and another album called "The Getaway".
Red Hot Chili Peppers were originally called Tony Flow and the Miraculously Majestic Masters of Mayhem. The band was started in 1983 for a single performance. They were so popular that they were asked to come back again the next week. The first members of the band were Anthony Kiedis (singer), Flea (bass), Hillel Slovak (guitar), and Jack Irons (drums). They all knew each other from Fairfax High School in Los Angeles.
After becoming popular in Los Angeles, Red Hot Chili Peppers got a recording contract with record label EMI. Irons and Slovak thought Red Hot Chili Peppers was a side project. They left just before the first album to work more on their original band, "What Is This?". Kiedis and Flea did not think their band was a side project, and decided to look for new members. They hired guitarist Jack Sherman and drummer Cliff Martinez. Andy Gill, usually a guitarist, was hired to be a producer for the band's first album.
Their first album was called "The Red Hot Chili Peppers". It did not sell many copies, but it got the band a small number of dedicated fans. Critics such as Robert Christgau liked the album, but the tour that came after it did not do well. Sherman was fired by the band after the tour, and Slovak came back to replace him.
Red Hot Chili Peppers hired George Clinton to produce their second album, "Freaky Styley". They released the album in 1985. It was only a little bit more successful than the one before it. After the album, Martinez was fired from the band. After firing him, Kiedis said he thought that Martinez had wanted to leave. Red Hot Chili Peppers hired another drummer, Chuck Biscuits, but Irons came back to replace him. The band began work with producer Michael Beinhorn on a new album.
The album "The Uplift Mofo Party Plan" was released in 1987. It was the band's most successful so far. The album entered the "Billboard" 200 chart, but only at number 148. During this time, Kiedis and Slovak had problems with drugs. Slovak died on June 25, 1988. Because of this, Irons left the band. He said that he did not want to be part of a band where his friends were dying. Kiedis and Flea agreed to keep going with the band.
After Slovak died and Irons left the band, D. H. Peligro (from the band Dead Kennedys) and DeWayne "Blackbyrd" McKnight joined Red Hot Chili Peppers. Neither of these two worked very well with the band, so they were replaced. Peligro told a friend of his, John Frusciante, to audition to join the band. His audition went well and he joined as guitarist. A friend of the band then told them about Chad Smith. Smith had a very good audition and joined. During the recording of their next album, Frusciante argued with Michael Beinhorn, the producer. Beinhorn wanted Frusciante to play his guitar very loud, like heavy metal music, but Frusciante did not like this style.
Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", became very successful. It sold well and songs from it appeared often on radio. It also appeared on MTV, because the band did a popular cover of Stevie Wonder's song "Higher Ground". The album reached number 52 on the "Billboard" 200 chart, and was certified "gold" by the RIAA.
After "Mother's Milk", Red Hot Chili Peppers changed their record label to Warner Music. The band chose to work with Rick Rubin as their next producer. Rubin thought they needed to work somewhere other than a studio, so they decided to record their next album in a mansion he owned. Smith did not stay in the mansion because he thought it was a haunted house. The rest of the band did not leave the house for a month.
The name of the new album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", was taken from the tenth song on the album. It was chosen by Rubin because the band could not agree on a title. He chose the name because he thought "Blood Sugar Sex Magik" was the best song on the album. The first single from the album, "Give It Away", won a Grammy Award for "Best Hard Rock Performance". It was the band's first Grammy Award. "Give It Away" did well on the music charts. It was the band's first song to go to number one on the "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart. The second single, "Under the Bridge", was the band's most successful song; it charted on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart at number two. The other singles from the album also did well.
The band's success made life difficult for Frusciante, who also had a drug addiction. He quit the band while they were on tour in May 1992. He was replaced by Arik Marshall. Marshal was later replaced by Jesse Tobias. The band played at the Lollapalooza festival in 1992. They also appeared on an episode of "The Simpsons". Neither of the band's new members stayed for long. Tobias was replaced in 1993 by Dave Navarro, from the band Jane's Addiction.
Dave Navarro first appeared with the band at the 1994 Woodstock Festival. They found it hard to work with him. Flea said it was because of "the fact that we grew up listening to different music". Red Hot Chili Peppers spent three months in Hawaii making a new album, and "One Hot Minute" was released in 1995. Its content was sadder than the band's earlier albums. It also sounded more like hard rock than the band's earlier work.
During this time, Kiedis had troubles with the drug heroin again. Navarro also took drugs. At one practice session with the band, he fell over his amplifier because he was in an over-excited condition because he had taken too many drugs—he was "high". Because of this, the band asked Navarro to leave. They told the media it was "mutual" because the band members disagreed on the music they liked to make.
After leaving Red Hot Chili Peppers, Frusciante made some albums by himself. He also had an addiction to heroin. He was so addicted that he was close to poverty and death at times. Frusciante went into a clinic for therapy. The quality of his life slowly improved. In April 1998, Flea asked Frusciante to join the band again. The rest of the band were happy to see him return. Kiedis called it the "defining moment" of the band's career so far.
The band were happy to have Frusciante rejoin, but it was a while before they began making songs again. This was because he had sold all of his guitars for money to buy drugs with. It also took him a while to get used to playing music as part of a band again. The band released their seventh album, "Californication", in 1999. It had fewer songs based on rap and funk than their previous albums. The album focused more on melodic guitar riffs. "Californication" was very popular. It sold over 15 million copies. Three of the singles on the album, "Scar Tissue", "Otherside", and "Californication", reached number one on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.
After touring in Spring 2001, Red Hot Chili Peppers began recording a new album. The band chose to work with Rubin again. They recorded in band members' homes. Frusciante did a lot more work on recording the new album, "By the Way", than he had done on "Californication". "By the Way" was released in 2002. It was the best seller of any album by the band so far. It sold over one million copies in the first week in which it could be bought. The album was rated very highly on charts. Some people thought that the music on "By the Way" was similar to the music on "Californication". A review by "Blender" magazine called it "Californication 2, a reprise of their last album". However, "Entertainment Weekly" said "By the Way" was a lot more serious than "Californication". A review from "Stylus Magazine" said that Red Hot Chili Peppers showed no passion in making the album and that it was "stunningly awful".
In 2003, Red Hot Chili Peppers released a "best of" compilation album called "Greatest Hits". It had songs from the last five albums they released. It also had two new songs. The album got to number 18 on the "Billboard" 200 chart. The band also released two live video albums in 2003 and 2004; "Live at Slane Castle" and "Live in Hyde Park". The Red Hot Chili Peppers concerts at Hyde Park were the most profitable in 2004.
After releasing "By the Way", Red Hot Chili Peppers played concerts around the world for two years. In 2004, the band began recording a new album with Rubin. They first wrote 38 songs for this album. They had planned to release three different albums; one every six months. They later changed their minds and decided to make one album with two discs, and 28 songs in total. The two-disc album was called "Stadium Arcadium". The discs were called "Jupiter" and "Mars".
Red Hot Chili Peppers released "Stadium Arcadium" in 2006. It was their first album to be number one in the United States. It was also number one on two other "Billboard" charts and in 12 other countries. The album won the Grammy Award for "Best Rock Album" in 2006. "Dani California", the first single, won the award for "Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal". The music on "Stadium Arcadium" was more mature than on previous albums, according to Tim Chester from "NME". He said this was because most of the band members had families. He also said, and Brian Hiatt from "Rolling Stone" agreed, that the songs on "Stadium Arcadium" were similar to the band's other work, and were not very original. However, both reviewers said the music was very good. In an Allmusic review, Stephen Thomas Erlewine said Flea and Frusciante did excellent work on the album. He also said that "the string instruments are the reason to listen to "Stadium Arcadium"". Erlewine agreed that the band had not done a lot of new things on the album, but instead did what they were good at.
After the tour of "Stadium Arcadium", the band took a break. During this break, Frusciante decided to leave the band to work in his solo work. The band selected Josh Klinghoffer as their new guitarist in 2009 and began working on their new album, called "I'm With You". According to their producer, the band wrote a lot of songs that could do a double album, like the previous one, but the band decided not to. Released in 2011, the album received good reviews from the critics, that commented that the content of the album has changed very much. The members of the band stated that the album was a revolutionary album, as it consisted on elements as samba and funk. The critics also praised the new member of the band, saying that it was adequate and that he played a lot of new elements in his guitar that led to a whole new sound of the album.
In 2016, the band released another album, called "The Getaway", their second with Josh Klinghoffer. It was not a large chart success, but it sold fairly well.
A dash (—) means it did not appear on the chart.

</doc>
<doc id="17339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339" title="Oasis (band)">
Oasis (band)

Oasis were an English rock band. They formed in Manchester, England in 1991. Before the band split in August 2009 people in the band were Noel Gallagher (lead guitar / vocals), Liam Gallagher (vocals), Colin 'Gem' Archer (rhythm guitar), Andy Bell (bass) and Chris Sharrock (drummer). Because the band is quite an old band they have had quite a few people play with them in the past. 
Liam Gallagher formed a new band called Beady Eye with Gem Archer, Andy Bell and Chris Sharrock. Noel Gallagher started a solo career. He released his first solo album in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="17341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17341" title="Rush (band)">
Rush (band)

Rush is a Canadian progressive rock band. They formed in the late 1960s in Toronto. The members of the group are Geddy Lee, the singer, who also plays the bass guitar and synthesizers, Alex Lifeson, who plays the guitar, and Neil Peart, who plays the drums.

</doc>
<doc id="17359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17359" title="Roy Hodgson">
Roy Hodgson

Roy Hodgson (born 9 August 1947) is an English football manager.
English Football Manager

</doc>
<doc id="17361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17361" title="Guinness World Records">
Guinness World Records

Guinness World Records is a reference book published each year. It has a collection of world records, both human achievements and the extremes of the natural world. The book itself holds a world record, as the best-selling copyrighted book series of all time. It is also one of the most often stolen books from public libraries in the United States.
It was known until 2000 as The Guinness Book of Records and in previous U.S. editions as The Guinness Book of World Records. 
On 4 May 1951, Sir Hugh Beaver, who then worked for Guinness Breweries, went on a shooting party by the River Slaney in County Wexford, Ireland. He became involved in an argument over which game bird in Europe was the fastest, the koshin golden plover or the grouse. That evening at Castlebridge House, he realised that it was impossible to confirm in reference books whether or not the golden plover was Europe's fastest game bird. Beaver knew that there must be many other questions debated nightly in pubs throughout Ireland, but there was no book in the world to settle arguments about records. He realised then that a book with the answers to this sort of question might prove popular.
Norris and Ross McWhirter were asked to put the book together. They ran a fact-finding agency in London. In August 1954 the first book was made. One thousand copies were printed and given away. The first 197-page edition was bound on 27 August 1955. It went to the top of the British bestseller lists by Christmas. The following year it went to the U.S., and it sold 70,000 copies. The book was very popular and the company decided to make one updated edition each year. They published in October to go with Christmas sales.
Recent editions have focused on record feats by human competitors. Competitions go from obvious ones such as weightlifting to the longest egg tossing distance, or for longest time spent playing "Grand Theft Auto IV" or the number of hot dogs that can be eaten in ten minutes. Eating contests and beer and alcohol consumption entries are no longer accepted, possibly for fear of litigation. Besides records about competitions, it has such facts as the heaviest tumor, the most poisonous plant, the shortest river (Roe River), the longest-running drama ("Guiding Light") in the USA, the longest-serving members of a drama series (William Roache for "Coronation Street" in the UK, Ray Meagher for "Home and Away" in Australia), and the world's most successful salesman (Joe Girard), among others. 
Each edition has a selection of the large set of records in the Guinness database. The ways used to make that choice have changed over the years. The newest records are added, and the records that have been updated are added too.
In 2005, Guinness chose 9 November as "International Guinness World Records Day". This is to encourage breaking of world records. In 2006 about 100,000 people participated in over 10 countries. 
In February 2008, NBC aired "The Top 100 Guinness World Records of All Time". Guinness World Records made the complete list available on their website.

</doc>
<doc id="17363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17363" title="Mime">
Mime

Mime is a type of acting that does not use words or speech. Mime is all about physical movement and exaggerating your expressions. Mimes (people who practice mime) must use their actions to send a or tell a story. They are not allowed to speak directly to the audience.
Probably the most well-known mime was Marcel Marceau. Mime originates from Rome and Greece. Some people also believe that cavemen used mime to communicate as they could not talk.

</doc>
<doc id="17365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17365" title="Kangaroo">
Kangaroo

A kangaroo is an Australian marsupial. It belongs to the genus "Macropus". The name Kangaroo is used for the four large species, but there are another 50 species of smaller macropods. It is common in Australia and can also be found in New Guinea.
Kangaroos hop to move around quickly, and walk on four legs while moving slowly. They can't jump backwards, not even very small distance. They can hop or jump as far as about three times their own height. They can also swim if necessary. The kangaroo is a herbivore, eating mainly grass, but some species also eat shrubs. A female Kangaroo has three vaginas.
Kangaroos are marsupials because they carry their young in a special pouch on their bodies. Baby kangaroos are called joeys. Kangaroos live in large groups, called mobs Each group is made up of breeding females, their young and several adult males. One of the males is the dominant male, he is the only one that breeds with the other females in the mob.
Because it is mostly found in Australia, Australians see it as a national symbol. The kangaroo is featured holding the Australian coat of arms. The Australian airline, Qantas, uses the kangaroo as its emblem. The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) also a has a kangaroo emblem.
Kangaroos can be dangerous because of their powerful legs. They can lean back on their tails to deliver powerful kicks. In 2009, a man went to save his dog which had chased a kangaroo into a farm dam. The kangaroo was able to hold the dog underwater nearly drowning it. The kangaroo gave the man several big kicks before he was able to grab his dog and escape from the dam. He needed hospital treatment for his injuries.
The word "kangaroo" is an Australian Aboriginal word from the Guugu Yimidhirr people of north Queensland. The word was recorded by Captain James Cook in August 1770. It was the name for the grey kangaroo, Macropus robustus. Cook's ship, the "HMS Endeavour", had been damaged on coral on the Great Barrier Reef. It took seven weeks for the ship to be repaired on the banks of a river, now the Endeavour River, at the site of the town of Cooktown. This gave Cook, Joseph Banks and other crew members time to explore the area and the plants and animals. The skin and skull of a kangaroo was taken back to England to be put on show. In James Boswell's book "Life of Johnson" he describes Dr. Samuel Johnson in 1793 hopping around the room to explain to people how a kangaroo moved. When Arthur Phillip and the First Fleet arrived in Sydney in 1788, they were surprised that the Aborigines did not know the word "kangaroo." It took them a while to realize that Aborigines at Sydney spoke a different language to those from Cooktown.
There are four living species of kangaroos:
There are also about 50 other smaller macropods in the macropodidae family.
There was a now-extinct family of giant kangaroos, the Sthenurinae. They were adapted for browsing in woodland areas, rather than open grassland. The largest ("Procoptodon goliah") had an estimated body mass of 240 kg., which is almost three times the weight of the largest living kangaroos. Probably they moved at slower speeds, since hopping was not possible. They would have moved by striding (walking). The family went extinct about 30,000 years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="17366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17366" title="Harriet Tubman">
Harriet Tubman

Harriet Tubman (born Araaminta Ross; c. 1820 or 1821 – March 10, 1913) was an African-American anti-slavery worker, and humanitarian. She was also a Union spy during the American Civil War. She was born into slavery but she escaped. During her life, she made nineteen trips. She helped 26 slaves escape. She used the Underground Railroad.
When Tubman was a child in Dorchester County, Maryland, she was whipped and beaten by many different masters. When she was very young, an angry overseer threw a heavy metal weight at another slave. The weight accidentally hit Tubman's head. That caused seizures, narcoleptic attacks, headaches, powerful visionary and dream experiences. She had those problems all her life. Tubman believed the visions and vivid dreams came from God.
In 1849, Tubman escaped to Philadelphia. Slaves were free there. She later returned to Maryland to rescue her family. She eventually guided dozens of other slaves to freedom. Slave owners offered large rewards for the return of their slaves. Tubman was never caught because nobody knew she was freeing the slaves.
When the American Civil War began, Tubman worked for the Union Army. She worked first as a cook and nurse. Later she was an armed scout and spy. She was the first woman to lead an armed group in the war. She guided the Combehee River Raid, which freed more than 700 slaves in South Carolina. After the war, she moved to her family home in Auburn, New York. There she cared for her aging parents. She became active in the women's suffrage movement in New York until she became ill. Near the end of her life, she lived in a home for elderly African Americans. Years earlier, she had helped create that home.
Tubman's mother Rit (whose father might have been a white man) was a cook. Her father Ben was a woodsman. He did the timber work on a plantation. They married around 1808. According to court records, they had nine children together. Linah was born in 1808, Mariah Ritty in 1811, Soph in 1813, Robert in 1816, Minty (Harriet) in 1822, Ben in 1823, Rachel in 1825, Henry in 1830, and Moses in 1832.
Tubman's mother was assigned to "the big house" and had very little time for her family. Tubman took care of a younger brother and a baby. This was typical in large families. When she was five or six years old, Brodess hired her out as a nursemaid to a woman named "Miss Susan". Tubman was ordered to watch the baby. Tubman was whipped. She later talked about a day when she was whipped five times before breakfast. She had the scars for the rest of her life. She found ways to resist such as running away for five days, wearing layers of clothing as protection against beatings, and fighting back.
As a child, Tubman also worked at the home of a planter named James Cook. She had to check muskrat traps in nearby marshes. She did that work even after she got measles. She became so ill that Cook sent her back to Brodess. Her mother nursed her back to health. Brodess then hired her out again. Tubman spoke later of her acute childhood homesickness. She compared herself to "the boy on the Swanee River" (referring to Stephen Foster's song "Old Folks at Home"). When she was older and stronger, she did field and forest work, driving oxen, plowing, and hauling logs.
One day, the adolescent Tubman was sent to a dry-goods store for supplies. There she met a slave owned by another family. That slave had left the fields without permission. His overseer was angry. He demanded that Tubman help restrain the young man. Tubman refused. As the slave ran away, the overseer threw a two-pound weight at him. The weight hit Tubman instead. Tubman said the weight "broke my skull". She later explained her belief that her hair – which "had never been combed and ... stood out like a bushel basket" – might have saved her life. Bleeding and unconscious, Tubman was returned to her owner's house and laid on the seat of a loom. She had no medical care for two days. She was sent back into the fields, "with blood and sweat rolling down my face until I couldn't see." Her boss returned her to Brodess, who tried unsuccessfully to sell her. She began having seizures and seemed to fall unconscious. She later said she was aware of her surroundings while appearing to be asleep. These episodes were alarming to her family. They couldn't wake her when she fell asleep suddenly and without warning. This condition remained with Tubman for the rest of her life. Larson suggests she may have suffered from temporal lobe epilepsy because of the injury.
Around 1844, Tubman married a free black man named John Tubman. Little is known about him or their time together. Their marriage was complicated because she was a slave. Since children would have the status of the mother, any children born to Harriet and John would become slaves. By this time, half the black population on the Eastern Shore of Maryland was free. Marriages between free people and enslaved people were not uncommon. Most African-American families had both free and enslaved members. Larson suggests that they might have planned to buy Tubman's freedom. Tubman changed her name from Araminta to Harriet soon after her marriage. It's not known exactly when she did that.

</doc>
<doc id="17368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17368" title="Device driver">
Device driver

A driver is a program that lets the operating system communicate with specific computer hardware. 
Computer parts need a driver because they do not use standard commands. (Ex.: ATI and Nvidia graphic cards do the same jobs, but each requires its own driver as each driver sends different commands to the hardware). Different operating systems also need different drivers, a driver written for Linux can not be used by Microsoft Windows (there are some exceptions to this, for example, Linux can use Windows Wi-Fi (NDIS) drivers using Ndiswrapper).
Many parts of a computer need drivers, and common examples are:
Some other computer parts do not need drivers (or the driver is built-in to the operating system) because they use a kind of standard; the operating system recognizes those parts and knows how to use those parts.
Such parts include items on the following list:
Using the wrong device driver can prevent hardware from working correctly. For example, a HP printer will not work with a computer that only has a Canon driver. Keeping drivers up-to-date avoids problems when using new programs (such as Windows Vista) with the piece of hardware.

</doc>
<doc id="17376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17376" title="Central processing unit">
Central processing unit

A central processing unit (CPU) is an important part of almost every computer. The CPU sends signals to control the other parts of the computer, almost like how a brain controls a body.
The CPU is an electronic machine that works on a list of things to do, called "instructions". It reads the list of instructions and does ("executes") each one in order. A list of instructions that a CPU can run is a computer program.
The speed that a CPU works at is measured in hertz (Hz). Modern processors often run so fast that gigahertz (GHz) is used instead. One gigahertz is one billion cycles per second.
Most CPUs used in desktop (home) computers are made by either Intel or Advanced Micro Devices (usually shortened to AMD). Some other companies that make CPUs are ARM, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. Their CPUs are usually used for more specialized things, like in mobile phones, cars, game consoles, or in the military.
In the 20th century engineers invented many different computer architectures. Nowadays most desktop computers use either 32-bit CPUs or 64-bit CPUs. The instructions in a 32-bit CPU are good at handling data that is 32 bits in size (most instructions "think" in 32 bits in a 32-bit CPU). Likewise, a 64-bit CPU is good at handling data that is 64 bits in size (and often good at handling 32-bit data too). The size of data that a CPU handles best is often called the "word size" of the CPU. Many old CPUs from the 70s, 80s and early 90s (and some modern small CPUs) have an 8-bit or 16-bit word size. When CPUs were invented in the middle 20th century they had many different word sizes. Some had different word sizes for instructions and data. The less popular word sizes later stopped being used. 
Most CPUs are microprocessors. This means that the CPU is just a single chip. Some chips with microprocessors inside them also contain other components, and are complete single-chip "computers". This is called a microcontroller.
When the CPU runs a computer program, it needs somewhere to store the data that the instructions operate on (the data that they read and write). This storage is called a "register." A CPU usually has many registers. Registers must be very fast to access (to read and write). Therefore, they are part of the CPU chip itself.
Storing all data in registers would make most CPUs too complicated (and very expensive). Therefore, registers usually only store the data that the CPU is working on "right now". The rest of the data used by the program is stored in RAM (memory). Except in microcontrollers, RAM is usually stored outside the CPU in separate chips.
When the CPU wants to read or write data in RAM, it outputs an "address" to that data. Each byte in RAM has a memory address. The size of addresses is often the same as the word size: A 32-bit CPU uses 32-bit addresses, etc. However, smaller CPUs, like 8-bit CPUs, often use addresses that are larger than the word size. Otherwise the maximum program length would be too short.
Because the size of addresses is limited, the maximum amount of memory is also limited. 32-bit processors can usually only handle up to 4 GB of RAM. This is the number of different bytes that can be selected using a 32-bit address (each bit can have two values—0 and 1—and 2 bytes is 4 GB). A 64-bit processor might be able to handle up to 16 EB of RAM (16 exabytes, around 16 billion GB, or 16 billion billion bytes). The operating system may limit it to using smaller amounts.
The information that is stored in RAM is usually volatile. This means that it will disappear if the computer is turned off.
On modern computers, RAM is much slower than registers, so accessing RAM slows down programs. To speed up memory accesses, a faster type of memory called a "cache" is often put between the RAM and the main parts of the CPU. The cache is usually a part of the CPU chip itself, and is much more expensive per byte than RAM. The cache stores the same data as RAM, but is usually much smaller. Therefore, all the data used by the program might not fit in the cache. The cache tries to store data that is likely to be used a lot. Examples include recently used data and data close in memory to recently used data.
Often it makes sense to have a "cache for the cache", just as it makes sense to have a cache for RAM. In "multi-level caching", there are many caches, called the L1 cache, the L2 cache, and so on. The L1 cache is the fastest (and most expensive per byte) cache and is "closest" to the CPU. The L2 cache is one step away and is slower than the L1 cache, etc. The L1 cache can often be viewed as a cache for the L2 cache, etc.
Computer buses are the wires used by the CPU to communicate with RAM and other components in the computer. Almost all CPUs have at least a "data bus" - used to read and write data - and an "address bus" - used to output addresses. Other buses inside the CPU carry data to different parts of the CPU.
An instruction set (also called an ISA - Instruction Set Architecture) is a language understood directly by a particular CPU. These languages are also called machine code or binary. They say how you tell the CPU to do different things, like loading data from memory into a register, or adding the values from two registers. Each instruction in an instruction set has an encoding, which is how the instruction is written as a sequence of bits.
Programs written in programming languages like C and C++ can't be run directly by the CPU. They must be translated into machine code before the CPU can run them. A compiler is a computer program that does this translation.
Machine code is just a sequence of 0s and 1s, which makes it difficult for humans to read it. To make it more readable, machine code programs are usually written in "assembly language". Assembly language uses text instead of 0s and 1s: You might write "LD A,0" to load the value 0 into register A for example. A program that translates assembly language into machine code is called an "assembler".
Here are some of the basic things a CPU can do:
Even very complicated programs can be made by combining many simple instructions like these. This is possible because each instruction takes a very short time to happen. Many CPUs today can do more than 1 billion (1,000,000,000) instructions in a single second. In general, the more a CPU can do in a given time, the faster it is. One way to measure a processor's speed is MIPS (Million Instructions Per Second). Flops (Floating-point operations per second) and CPU clock speed (usually measured in gigahertz) are also ways to measure how much work a processor can do in a certain time.
A CPU is built out of logic gates; it has no moving parts. The CPU of a computer is connected electronically to other parts of the computer, like the video card, or the BIOS. A computer program can control these peripherals by reading or writing numbers to special places in the computer's memory.
Each instruction executed by a CPU is usually done in many steps. For example, the steps to run an instruction "INC A" (increase the value stored in register A by one) on a simple CPU could be this:
To run these steps, the CPU could have a separate module (separate electronics inside the CPU) that runs each step. The output from one module (for example, the bits of the instruction) would be the input to the next module (for example, the instruction decoder). A set of modules connected like this is called a "pipeline". Pipelines can be found in many other places in electronics too, not just in CPUs.
Often it is possible to run some steps from different instructions at the same time, which makes the CPU faster. For example, we can read an instruction from memory at the same time that we decode another instruction, since those steps use different modules. This can be thought of as having many instructions "inside the pipeline" at once. In the best case, all of the modules are working on different instructions at once, but this is not always possible.
Modern CPUs often use a memory management unit (MMU). An MMU is a component that translates addresses from the CPU to (usually) different RAM addresses. When using an MMU, the addresses used in a program are (usually) not the "real" addresses where the data is stored. This is called "virtual" (the opposite of "real") memory. A few of the reasons why it is good to have an MMU are listed below:
Some newer processors have multiple cores. This means that they have many processors built on to the same chip so that they can run many instructions at once.
While the individual cores might be slower than a single core processor, all the cores can work together to go faster. This means that the GHz might be lower, however the overall speed of the processor will be higher.
To make an analogy, think of traffic lanes;
In today's modern computers, some processors may have up to twenty-two cores and are available to all consumers, like the Intel Xeon E5-2699 v4.
The following companies make computer CPUs:

</doc>
<doc id="17378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17378" title="Running of the Bulls">
Running of the Bulls

The Running of the Bulls (in Spanish el encierro, meaning "the enclosing") is an activity that involves running in front of bulls on a course of a sectioned-off area of a town's streets. It is done all around Spain, but the most famous running of the bulls is in Pamplona. In most bull runs the bulls are not killed, and they live for a whole season. This is a dangerous activity but very exciting. Safety varies in some places like Xabia the area is surrounded by cages that people can slip in and out of but the bulls can not.

</doc>
<doc id="17384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17384" title="Red shift">
Red shift

Red shift is a way astronomers use to tell the distance of any object that is very far away in the Universe. It is one example of the Doppler effect. 
The easiest way to experience the Doppler effect is to listen to a moving train, which, as it moves "towards" a person, sounds like it has a higher tone, since the frequency of the sound is squeezed together a little bit. As the train speeds "away", the sound gets stretched out, and is lower in tone. The same happens when a light-emitting object moves very fast. An object, like a star or a galaxy, that is far away and moving toward us, will look more blue than it normally does. This is called blue shift. A star or galaxy moving away from us will look more red than it would if the source were not moving in our frame of reference. This is where red shift got its name, since the colors are shifted towards the red end of the spectrum.
The reason astronomers can tell how far the light gets shifted is because certain chemical elements, like the calcium in bones or the oxygen people breathe, have a unique "fingerprint" of light that no other chemical elements have. They can see what colors of light are coming from a star, and see what it is made of. Once they know that, they check to see the difference between where the fingerprint, called spectral lines, are actually at, and then look at where they are supposed to be. When they see that, they can tell how far away the star is, whether it is moving toward us or away from us, and also how fast it is going, since the faster it goes, the farther the distance the spectral lines are from where they should be.

</doc>
<doc id="17385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17385" title="Spectral line">
Spectral line

Spectral lines are how scientists tell one element from another by looking at color.
In order to understand spectral lines, color has to be understood. In a rainbow, the colors of light go from purple to red. Several hundred years ago, the famous scientist Issac Newton did an experiment where he showed that even white light from the Sun was made up of all the colors of the rainbow. When other scientists following him looked at this rainbow very closely, they noticed that there were dark lines breaking up the rainbow, where certain shades of colors should be. These lines were very small, and could only be seen when the rainbow got streched out very far. They investigated this further, and discovered that certain chemical elements, like the hydrogen and helium that make up the Sun, absorbed certain frequencies of light where those colors should be, like a sponge absorbs water, but does not absorb chalk.
Soon, scientists discovered that when they heated up other chemical elements, like calcium and oxygen, so hot that they shined with a white light, they found similar lines, but in different places. No two chemical elements had these lines in exactly the same places along the rainbow, and they also soon discovered that could be used to be able to tell what stars were made up of in the Universe.
The reason the chemical elements can do this is because of the number and places of electrons orbiting around the center of each atom of each chemical element. These electrons, when light hits them, absorb a specific wavelength, or color of light, and what color they absorb depend on their position around the atom. Since each chemical element has a certain number of electrons, each chemical element has this unique set of spectral lines.
Since each set of spectral lines was unique, scientists could also be able to use this in a technique called red shift. Red shift is a method astronomers use, after they know what a star is made of, to tell how fast an object far away in the Universe is moving. It also tells them how far away it is, .

</doc>
<doc id="17387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17387" title="Godzilla">
Godzilla

Godzilla is a giant dinosaur-like fictional monster who first appeared in movies from Japan, in the year 1954. Since then has been featured in twenty-nine movies. During his movie career, this large reptile fought against many other mythical monsters, including the giant moth-like Mothra, the three-headed King Ghidorah, his own robotic mirror image Mechagodzilla, and several more enemies. The original Japanese name, "Gojira", is a combination of the words "gorilla" and "kujira" (means "whale"). In countries where the primary language is English, the name has been changed to "Godzilla".

</doc>
<doc id="17389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17389" title="1090s">
1090s

The 1090s was the decade that started on January 1, 1090 and ended on December 31, 1099.

</doc>
<doc id="17390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17390" title="1101">
1101


</doc>
<doc id="17391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17391" title="1137">
1137


</doc>
<doc id="17392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392" title="1194">
1194


</doc>
<doc id="17393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17393" title="1207">
1207

1207 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="17394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17394" title="The Pentagon">
The Pentagon

The Pentagon is the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense. It is in Arlington, Virginia (near Washington, D.C.). It has limestone walls. It is in the shape of a pentagon. It has seven floors. There are 23,000 people working in it.
The Pentagon is the biggest office building in the world, but any place in the building can be reached within 7 minutes.
They began building it on September 11, 1941. Exactly sixty years later, on September 11, 2001, it was hit with an airplane by terrorists. One hundred eighty-four people in the building were killed.
The Pentagon has the most floor area of any building in the world. It has a total floor area of 6,500,000 sq ft (604,000 m). Offices are 3,700,000 sq ft (344,000 m). Approximately 23,000 military and civilian employees and about 3,000 non-defense support personnel work in the Pentagon. It has five sides, five floors above ground, two basement levels, and five ring corridors per floor with a total of of corridors. The Pentagon includes a five-acre (20,000 m) central plaza, which is shaped like a pentagon.
The concentric rings are named (from the center out) as "A" through "E" (with in addition "F" and "G" in the basement). "E" Ring offices are the only ones with outside views and are generally occupied by senior officials. Office numbers go clockwise around each of the rings, and have two parts: a nearest-corridor number (1 to 10) followed by a bay number (00 to 99), so office numbers range from 100 to 1099. These corridors radiate out from the central courtyard, with corridor 1 beginning with the Concourse's south end. Each numbered radial corridor intersects with the corresponding numbered group of offices (for example, corridor 5 divides the 500 series office block). There are a number of historical displays in the building, particularly in the "A" and "E" rings.
Floors in the Pentagon are lettered "B" for Basement and "M" for Mezzanine, both of which are below ground level. The concourse is located on the second floor at the metro entrance. Above ground floors are numbered 1 to 5. Room numbers are given as the floor, concentric ring, and office number (which is in turn the nearest corridor number followed by the bay number). So, office 2B315 is on the second floor, B ring, and nearest to corridor 3 (between corridors 2 and 3). One way to get to this office would be to go to the second floor, get to the A (innermost) ring, go to and take corridor 3, and then turn left on ring B to get to bay 15.
A person can walk between any two points in less than seven minutes.
Just south of the Pentagon are Pentagon City and Crystal City, extensive shopping and high-density residential districts in Arlington. Arlington National Cemetery is to the north. The Washington Metro Pentagon station is also located at the Pentagon, on the Blue and Yellow Lines. The Pentagon is surrounded by the complex Pentagon road network. Every day, thousands of commuters traveling between Arlington, Virginia and Washington, DC drive on the roads of the Pentagon Reservation.
The Pentagon Athletic Center (PAC) is a fitness center for military and civilian staff. It opened in a separate building on the north side of the Pentagon in 2004. Each year, the Pentagon grounds hold the Marine Corps Marathon and the Army Ten-Miler running events.
The public may take a 60 minute long tour of the building. Tourists also visit the Pentagon Memorial that is on the building's west side.
The Pentagon has:

</doc>
<doc id="17395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17395" title="The Beach Boys">
The Beach Boys

The Beach Boys are an American pop/surf rock group from Hawthorne, California. They formed in 1961, and the original members were Brian Wilson (keyboards, bass guitar), his brothers Dennis Wilson (drums) and Carl Wilson (lead guitar), their cousin Mike Love (lead vocals), and close friend Al Jardine (rhythm guitar). David Marks replaced Jardine when he went away to school; after Jardine's return, Marks left the band. Bruce Johnston (keyboards) later became a regular band member, first replacing Brian Wilson on tour, then joining in on recording sessions. Many of the band's songs were about life in southern California, the beach, girls, cars, and surfing (though Dennis Wilson and Bruce Johnston were actually the only members in the group who surfed).
Reunions with some of the original band members still occur from time to time.

</doc>
<doc id="17397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17397" title="Modem">
Modem

A modem (comes from: modulator demodulator) is a piece of computer hardware. It is used to communicate between distant computers. Two modems, one on each computer, are required to make a connection, and each modem can send and receive data to and from the other modem. 
Modems are classified by the amount of data they can send in a given time, normally measured in bits per second (bit/s, or bps). They are also classified by their connection method. Dial-up modems were the usual kind in the 20th century, and DSL modems and Cable TV modems are now more used. 
Modems that connect to the computer by a cable are called external modems. Modems that go inside the computer are internal modems. Some internal modems are part of the motherboard; others are inserted into the computer on a PC card. Most DSL and cable modems are external.
Many modems are used to connect to the Internet through telephone service or cable television service. Slow telephone service is called dial-up (maximum 56,000 bits per second). Faster telephone service is called DSL and is usually more than ten times faster. Cable modems connect through cable television, and are similarly fast. 
A CEA study in 2006 found that dial-up Internet access is on a decline in the United States. In 2000, dial-up Internet connections accounted for 74% of all U.S. residential Internet connections. This decline has been more or less mirrored in Canada and Australia.
Dial-up modem use in the US dropped to 60% by 2003, and in 2006 stood at 36%. Voiceband modems were once the most popular means of Internet access in the U.S. But as more homes adopted faster ways of accessing the Internet, the traditional 56K modem is losing popularity.

</doc>
<doc id="17398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17398" title="3DO">
3DO

3DO is the name of the video game consoles made by the 3DO company. They were released in 1993 and 1994. Its features were very ahead of its time. The 3DO was one of the worst-selling consoles in history because it was very expensive (The launch price was $700) and other companies had cheaper systems . By 1994,the price was reduced to $400 and eventually $300. It was also not advertised very well, so no one knew about it. Some of the best games for it are "Alone in the Dark" and "Myst". The 3DO company also wanted to make another console called the M2, but it was never released.

</doc>
<doc id="17399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17399" title="APF-M1000">
APF-M1000

The APF-M1000 was a video game console made by APF in 1978. The controllers had numbers (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0 called a numeric keypad) and a joystick. With a joystick, the player moves the joystick and uses it to control the action in the game. It could only be used on a color TV. It came built-in with the game "Rocket Patrol".

</doc>
<doc id="17401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17401" title="Windsor, Ontario">
Windsor, Ontario

Windsor is a city in southern Ontario, Canada, which is across the Detroit River from the U.S. city of Detroit, Michigan. Windsor was founded in 1749 by the French. It has a population of 208,000 (counted in 2001).

</doc>
<doc id="17410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17410" title="QWERTY">
QWERTY

QWERTY refers to a certain typewriter or computer keyboard layout that is commonly used in some English-speaking countries. The term comes from the fact the first 6 letters of the top row of keys are Q, W, E, R, T, and Y. The QWERTY design was patented by Christopher Sholes in 1874 and sold to E. Remington and Sons during the same year.
The QWERTY layout was invented by Christopher Sholes, the inventor of the first modern typewriter. At first the letters on the typewriter were placed alphabetically. However, when the user of the typewriter learned to type quickly, the bars attached to letters became caught in one another. The typist had to stop and unstick the typebars with his hands. A business associate of Sholes named James Densmore suggested splitting up the keys to speed up typing by preventing the typebars from striking the typewriter roller at the same time and sticking together. Some people say the QWERTY layout was created to slow down typing speed, while others say it worked by separating series of English letters.
The QWERTY layout was made to type in English, therefore it has no accent marks as they are not used in native English words. People from other countries whose own languages used accent marks (such as French, which has letters like "é", "î", and "ç") had problems. Depending on the operating system and the application being used, one can type accents marks by holding down the Alt key while pressing several number keys in a row. As an example, holding the Alt key, pressing the number keys 1, 5, and 6, then releasing the Alt key will generate a character numbered 156 in some character set. The Control or Alt key can be also used together with a letter. In some word processors, like Microsoft Word, characters with accent marks could be found under a category named "Special Characters" or something similar. Windows also has a program called "Character Map" that can be used to find and copy characters that could be pasted into other applications later on.
Depending on where the QWERTY keyboard was made, the keyboard may look different.
The keyboards made in Belgium and France switch the letters Q and W with the letters A and Z. They also move the letter M to the right of L. These types of keyboards are called AZERTY keyboards.
Some of the keyboards in the Czech language use QWERTZ keyboards. They switch the Z and Y like the German version, but it uses "ů" to the right of L and ú next to P. The row that normally has numbers has the accents ě, š, č, ř, ž, ý, á, í, é. Instead, the person who uses the keyboard has to use the shift key to make numbers.
Danish and Norwegian layouts switched Æ, Ø, and Å where Swedish and Finnish the letters Ä and Ö.
Faroese keyboards add Æ and Ø next to L, and Å and Ð next to P.
German keyboards add an Ü to the right of P - and Ö, Ä to the right of L - and switch the Z and Y keys both because Z is a much more common letter than Y in German.
Hungarian keyboard add an É and Á after L, Ö above O, Ü above P, Ő after P, Ú after Ő, Ó above Ú, Í under A, and switch Z and Y, like in German.
Icelandic layouts add Ð to the right of P, Æ to the right of L, Ö to the right of 0 in the top row and Þ to the rightmost place in the bottom row.
Italian typewriter keyboards use a QZERTY layout where Z is swapped with W and M is at the right of "L". Computers use a QWERTY keyboard with è to the right of P and ò to the right of L.
Lithuanian keyboards use a layout known as ĄŽERTY, where Ą appears in place of Q above A, Ž in place of W above S, with Q and W being available either on the far right side or by use of the Alt Gr key. Depending on the software used. Sometimes, Lithuanian symbols replace the numbers.
Portuguese keyboards maintain the QWERTY layout but add the key Ç. after the L key.The Spanish version has the letter Ñ, the Ç.
Romanian keyboards have a QWERTZ layout, swapping Y with Z. ă and î are added to the right of the letter P, while ş and ţ are added to the right of the letter L. â replaces the backslash character. Changes are also made to the upper number keys, the numbers remain the same, but some of the symbols are shuffled. The most notable change is that hyphen (-) is swapped with slash (/).
Spanish keyboards add ñ and Ñ characters to the right of the L instead of the semicolon and colon.
Turkish layouts add Ğ and Ü to the right of P, Ş and İ to the right of L, Ö and Ç to the right of M.

</doc>
<doc id="17414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17414" title="List">
List

A list is a part of a text, which has many words separated by commas (,) or a group of words going down the page that may use bullet points, letters, or numbers. Semi-colons (;) are also used sometimes to separate items in a list.
These are lists:
I have invited Peter, Mary, and Henry to my birthday.
People who I have invited to my birthday are:
People I invited to my birthday: Peter; Mary; Henry.

</doc>
<doc id="17422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17422" title="Antimatter">
Antimatter

Antimatter is a term in particle physics. Antimatter is a material composed of antiparticles. These have the same mass as particles of ordinary matter but have opposite charge and properties, such as lepton and baryon number. 
Encounters between particles and antiparticles lead to the destruction of both. This gives rise to high-energy photons (gamma rays), neutrinos, and lower-mass particle–antiparticle pairs.
In physics, all the elementary particles, or the basic building blocks of the things we can touch, come in pairs. Each particle has what is called an antiparticle. This may look and act just like the regular particle, except for one major difference. An example is the electron and the positron. They both weigh the same, and act the same, but the electron has a negative electrical charge, while the positron has a positive electrical charge, which is where the positron (positive + electron) gets its name.
Other antimatter particles are the same way, where they have the same weight, and look and act the same as regular particles, but their electrical charge is the opposite of regular particles. Antihydrogen, for example, has the positron, which is positively charged, orbiting around an antiproton, which is negatively charged, which is the opposite way regular hydrogen looks, which has the electron (negative charge), orbiting around a proton (positive charge).
Albert Einstein found a formula that can show how much energy a certain amount of something has, whether it is matter or antimatter. This formula is formula_1, and is one of the most well known equations. In simple terms, if you take the mass of something and then multiply it by the speed of light, and then multiply it by the speed of light again, you will get how much pure energy a given piece of something has. Since the speed of light is such a big number, this means that even a small amount of matter can have a lot of energy (it has been projected to be 4 times more effective per mass than nuclear fission).
Antimatter was predicted from the expanded form of formula_1, which is formula_3. You can take the square root of each side of the equation, since it is equal. However, any real square root has two answers. You can think of the negative root as being antimatter.
The reason this is important to understand antimatter is because scientists found that when matter and antimatter touch each other, the amount of energy that is released comes very close to the amount of energy formula_1 says should be all together in those two pieces. The reason is that each particle of matter, when it touches its antiparticle in the antimatter world, both change over into pure energy, or annihilate each other. This release of such a high amount of energy is why a lot of science fiction writers use antimatter for fuel in their stories. For example, author Dan Brown uses antimatter in "Angels and Demons" as a very powerful weapon. It is also being looked at as a fuel source for real-life missions to outer space in the future.
Many scientists think that in the first few moments after the Big Bang, which created the universe a very long time ago, both matter and antimatter were mixing together. Since there was just a little bit more matter than antimatter (scientists still have not figured out why this happened yet), whatever was left over after most of the matter and antimatter annihilated into energy became the Universe we see today. Physicists do not yet know for sure that equal amounts of matter and antimatter were created, and because of this, they are also wondering where the antimatter went, and if any was left over from the beginning of the universe. Another theory is that there is lots of antimatter on the other side of the universe, hidden far beyond our vision. They could have formed their own galaxies and solar systems too.
Because antimatter can make so much energy, it can be used for a lot of things, such as fuel for going into outer space, or in our cars. The problem is that antimatter is very expensive to make, and is almost as expensive to store, since it cannot touch regular matter. It takes several hundred million dollars to make less than one-millionth of a gram of antimatter. In fact, it is the most expensive and the rarest substance on Earth. Since it is so expensive, this means that antimatter is not practical to use as a weapon or as an energy source, because so little of it is obtainable.
Recently, however, scientists have trapped antimatter for over 16 minutes (1000 sec. total).
It does have a use in medicine, because a special kind of scanner called the PET, which stands for positron emission tomography, uses positrons to go into the human body. Doctors can look at the way the positron changes into energy inside a person's body, and be able to tell if something is wrong inside a person. This kind of machine works differently than an X-ray machine or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine, and can help doctors see things that those other machines cannot see.

</doc>
<doc id="17425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17425" title="Minsk">
Minsk

Minsk or Miensk (Мінск (official spelling in Belarus), Менск; Минск ; Mińsk) is the capital and a major city of Belarus. 1.8 million people live in the city. Minsk is also a headquarters of the Commonwealth of Independent States. As a capital, Minsk has a special administrative status in Belarus and is also the capital of Minsk voblast (province) and Minsk raion. Minsk is situated by the Svislach and Niamiha rivers. The timezone in Minsk is GMT +2.
The oldest mentions of Minsk date back to the 11th century (1067). In 1326 Minsk became a part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and received its town privileges in 1499. From 1569 it was a capital of the Minsk Voivodship in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was annexed by Russia in 1793 as a consequence of the Second Partition of Poland. During 1919–1991 Minsk was the capital of the Byelorussian SSR.

</doc>
<doc id="17427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17427" title="Mercedes">
Mercedes

Mercedes:

</doc>
<doc id="17432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17432" title="1310s">
1310s


</doc>
<doc id="17433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17433" title="1326">
1326


</doc>
<doc id="17436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17436" title="Chancellor of Germany">
Chancellor of Germany

The Chancellor of Germany (German: "Bundeskanzler", literally: "federal chancellor") is the leader of the government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Chancellor of Germany elected by the majority of the members of the Bundestag, the German parliament. The Chancellor is the German people's version of a Prime Minister or Premier.
The current chancellor is Angela Merkel (CDU), the first woman to be elected in this position.

</doc>
<doc id="17438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17438" title="Filipino American">
Filipino American

Filipino Americans are people with Filipino ethnicity who are citizens/nationals of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="17439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17439" title="Mysore">
Mysore

Mysore is a city in Karnataka, India. Mysore is south-west of Bangalore. Travel time from Bangalore to Mysore is 2-3 hours by road or rail.
Mysore Palace, Jaganmohan Palace, Chamundi Hills, Brindavan Gardens, and Mysore Zoo are the places to see in Mysore. Some people go to Mysore to see the Dasara procession. 
People also go to Mysore to learn yoga.

</doc>
<doc id="17440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17440" title="Kannada">
Kannada

Kannada () is a language, and it is a script used for writing the language. Most people in the southern Indian state of Karnataka speak Kannada, and there are speakers in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa. There are some differences in the way Kannada is spoken in these places. All told, there are about 44 million people who speak the language.
Kannada is a Dravidian language, which is a different language family from the Indo-European or Aryan languages of the north, such as Hindi. It has about 1500 years of written history. The first version is known as the Old Kannada script. By about 1500 it had morphed into the Kannada and Telugu scripts. Printing presses introduced by Christian missionaries at the beginning of the 19th century standardized the Kannada and Telugu scripts.
The Kannada script is a type of writing system called an alphasyllabary. All consonants have a built-in vowel. Other vowels are indicated with diacritics, which appear next to the consonants. When they appear at the beginning of a syllable, vowels are written as separate letters. When consonants appear together without intervening vowels, the second consonant is written as a special joint symbol, usually below the first. The direction of writing: left to right in horizontal lines.
It has highest number of Janapeeta literary awards compared to any Indian language. Kannada had a huge boost during the Vijayanagar period. Shri Vinoba Bhave called "Kannada" script the "Queen of World Scripts" "Vishwa Lipigala Raani".

</doc>
<doc id="17444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17444" title="1458">
1458


</doc>
<doc id="17445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17445" title="1461">
1461


</doc>
<doc id="17446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17446" title="1467">
1467


</doc>
<doc id="17447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17447" title="Arab League">
Arab League

The Arab League is an organization made up of countries in the Arab world in Northern Africa and Southwest Asia. Most, though not all of these countries use Arabic as their official language. The purpose is to find ways for the countries to have unity and to work together to solve their problems.
The organization has the Arabic Language as the language used in its summits, and all official papers, though it has never been stated by the Organization that Arabic is the Official Language. The Arab League was founded following the Protocol of Alexandria signed in the Year 1945, by seven Arab States, Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Trans-Jordan (Jordan). Today the Organization has 22 members, All countries adopting Arabic as an official language are members of the Organizations, except, Israel, Eritrea and Chad.
The countries in the Arab League are:

</doc>
<doc id="17448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17448" title="1478">
1478


</doc>
<doc id="17451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17451" title="1613">
1613

Year 1613 (MDCXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Friday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17452" title="1608">
1608


</doc>
<doc id="17453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17453" title="1577">
1577


</doc>
<doc id="17454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17454" title="1870s">
1870s


</doc>
<doc id="17455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17455" title="1501">
1501


</doc>
<doc id="17456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17456" title="Jon Voight">
Jon Voight

Jon Voight (born December 29, 1938) is an American actor. 
His mother was of German ancestry; his father was of Slovak ancestry. Voight is the middle of three brothers: volcanologist Barry Voight was born in 1937; musician Chip Taylor was born in 1940.
Voight's son James Haven and daughter Angelina Jolie are actors.

</doc>
<doc id="17461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17461" title="Category:1923 deaths">
Category:1923 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17465" title="Eugene McCarthy">
Eugene McCarthy

Eugene Joseph "Gene" McCarthy (March 29, 1916 – December 10, 2005) was a United States senator from Minnesota. He ran for President of the United States five times. He died from Parkinson's disease.

</doc>
<doc id="17466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17466" title="Arnold Schwarzenegger">
Arnold Schwarzenegger

ele morreu em 11 de dezembro de 2025 e deixou seu filho pedrro jannini que mora em brazil sao paulo e hoje em dia ele trabalha como mendigo contando historias que ele queria ser um exterminador do futuro assim com o pai e um dia seu filho quer ser igual jhon cena e quer ser como ele parrudao ate que um dia o pai dele voltou dos mortos e disse eu voltei
Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger (born July 30, 1947, in Thal, Austria) is an Austrian-American bodybuilder and actor. He was the governor of the American state of California from 2003-2011. He currently lives in Los Angeles, California.
After serving in the army, Schwarzenegger moved to Munich, where he often slept in a gym because he did not have anywhere else to live.
Schwarzenegger moved to the United States in 1968 and eventually became an actor. He has been in several big budget Hollywood movies including "The Terminator" series. He stopped acting to run for governor of California in 2003. In 2003, Governor Gray Davis was removed as governor and Schwarzenegger was elected. His term ended in early January 2011, and he was replaced by Jerry Brown.
Before becoming an actor, Schwarzenegger was a bodybuilder and had won both the Mr. Olympia and Mr. Universe titles over seven consecutive times. Schwarzenegger has also set up his own official competition, Arnold Classic.
In 1971, Schwarzenegger's younger maternal half-brother Meinhard died in a car accident due to driving while drunk.
In 1986, Schwarzenegger married Maria Shriver, but they separated in 2011. They have two daughters, Katherine and Christina, and two sons, Patrick and Christopher. Schwarzenegger also has a son with another woman.
In 2013, Schwarzenegger returned to acting with a role in the movie "Escape Plan".
On March 28, 2015, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Triple H.

</doc>
<doc id="17468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17468" title="Category:Austrian people">
Category:Austrian people


</doc>
<doc id="17470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17470" title="Holy Spirit">
Holy Spirit

The Holy Spirit, or Holy Ghost, is a part of the triune godhead (three in one God) of Christianity. 
The Holy Spirit was there from the beginning. Genesis 1:2 says that the Holy Spirit helped create the Earth.
It was by the Holy Spirit that Jesus was conceived in Mary (Matthew 1:18,19).
When Jesus had finished his ministry on Earth, he told his followers that he would provide "another Comforter" (helper), who would lead them, into truth (John 14:16), and would be their teacher to tell them things that Jesus had not told them, but that they needed to know to continue to live for God. 
The second chapter of the book of Acts tells how on the 50th day after Passover (called Pentecost), and 10 days after Jesus ascended to Heaven, Jesus' followers were gathered at the feast. While they were praying, the Holy Spirit came upon them. They began to speak in other languages (tongues).
While most Christians believe that the Holy Spirit is in them from the time they become born again, in Pentecostal denominations, such as the Assemblies of God, it is believed that speaking in unknown languages can still be an expression of the Holy Spirit, and that it is proof that a person has received the baptism of the Holy Spirit. 

</doc>
<doc id="17473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473" title="Internet Protocol">
Internet Protocol

The Internet Protocol (IP) is the main protocol that computers use to talk to each other. When two computers talk to each other, data passes from computer to computer. IP is in charge of figuring out the path that data will take (called routing), and is the backbone of the Internet.
The first version of the Internet Protocol is IP Version 4 ("IPv4"). The latest version, meant to replace IPv4 is IP Version 6 ("IPv6").
The Internet Protocol gets information from a source computer to a destination computer. It sends this information in the form of packets. IP also gives those computers an IP address to identify each other.
An IP packet or datagram has two parts. The first part is the header, which is like a label on an envelope. The second part is the payload, which is like the letter inside an envelope. The header contains the source and destination IP addresses, and some extra information. This information is called metadata, and is about the packet itself. Putting data in a packet with a header is encapsulation.
Every computer on a network does some kind of routing. Dedicated computers talk with each other to figure out where to send packets. These computers are called routers, and talk using routing protocols.
Along every hop in a packet's journey, a computer reads the header. The computer sees the destination IP address and figures out where to send the packet.
ARPANET, the early ancestor of the internet, was designed to survive a nuclear war. If one computer was destroyed, communication between all the other computers would still work. Computer networks still follow this same design.
Computers talking to each other handle the "smart" functions to simplify computer networks. The end nodes will check for errors instead of a central authority. Keeping the "smart" things on the end computers or nodes follows the end-to-end principle.
The Internet Protocol sends packets out without ensuring they arrive safely. This is "best-effort delivery", and is unreliable. Packets could get messed up, lost, duplicated, or received out of order. Higher level protocols like the Transmission Control Protocol ("TCP") ensure packets are delivered correctly. IP is also "connectionless", so it does not keep track of communications.
Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4) uses a checksum to check for errors in an IP header. Every checksum is unique to a source/destination combination. A routing node generates a new checksum when it gets a packet. If the new checksum is different from the old one, the routing node knows the packet is bad and throws it out. IPv6 assumes another protocol will check for errors and leaves out the checksum. This is to improve performance.
In 1974, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers published a paper called "A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication". The paper described a way for computers to talk to each other using Packet Switching. A big part of this idea was the "Transmission Control Program". The Transmission Control Program was too big, so it split into TCP and IP. This model is now called the "DoD" "Internet Model" and "Internet Protocol Suite", or the TCP/IP Model.
Versions 0 to 3 of IP were experimental, and used between 1977 and 1979.
IPv4 addresses will run out, because the number of possible addresses is finite. To fix this, the IEEE made IPv6 which had even more addresses. While IPv4 has 4.3 Billion addresses, IPv6 has 340 undecillion of them. This means we will never run out of IPv6 addresses. IPv5 was reserved for the Internet Stream Protocol, which was only used experimentally.

</doc>
<doc id="17474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17474" title="1850s">
1850s


</doc>
<doc id="17476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476" title="1479">
1479


</doc>
<doc id="17477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17477" title="1505">
1505


</doc>
<doc id="17478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17478" title="Akihito">
Akihito

Akihito became emperor after the death of his father in 1989, who was Emperor Shōwa. The current emperor's official reign name is "Heisei" (establishing peace).
The emperor has many duties and responsibilities. For example, he regularly
As a personal interest, Akihito studies fish.
Akihito directly addressed his subjects in a television broadcast after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. This was the first time any emperor used television in this way.

</doc>
<doc id="17480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17480" title="1133">
1133


</doc>
<doc id="17481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17481" title="1265">
1265


</doc>
<doc id="17483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17483" title="Aero Space Museum">
Aero Space Museum

The Aero Space Museum is an airplane museum in Calgary in Canada. The museum, founded in 1975, is near the Calgary Airport.
Some things at the museum are war-time airplanes: a Sopwith Triplane from World War I and an Avro Lancaster from World War II.
There are also peace-time airplanes made by Cessna and de Havilland, and a helicopter made by Sikorsky. The museum also has a large library of flying information available for people to read and look at.

</doc>
<doc id="17486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17486" title="Category:Aircraft museums">
Category:Aircraft museums


</doc>
<doc id="17487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17487" title="Canadian Museum of Flight">
Canadian Museum of Flight

The Canadian Museum of Flight is an aircraft museum at the Langley Airport in Langley, British Columbia, Canada. The museum has about 20 peace-time and war-time motor airplanes, gliders, and helicopters to see, six of which can still fly.

</doc>
<doc id="17489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17489" title="Olympic Flight Museum">
Olympic Flight Museum

The Olympic Flight Museum is an aircraft museum at the Olympia Airport in Olympia, Washington, USA. The museum has more than 20 airplanes and helicopters to see, most of which can still fly.

</doc>
<doc id="17490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17490" title="San Diego Aerospace Museum">
San Diego Aerospace Museum

San Diego Aerospace Museum is an aircraft and space exploration museum in San Diego, California, USA. It contains many original and copies of old aircraft and spacecraft, including:

</doc>
<doc id="17491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17491" title="Category:Museums in California">
Category:Museums in California

Museums in California, USA.

</doc>
<doc id="17492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17492" title="Category:Museums in Washington">
Category:Museums in Washington

Museums in Washington, USA.

</doc>
<doc id="17493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17493" title="Pearson Air Museum">
Pearson Air Museum

The Pearson Air Museum is an airplane museum at Pearson Field Airport in Vancouver, Washington, USA. The museum and Pearson Field, and the Fort Vancouver National Historic Site, are all part of the Vancouver National Historic Reserve.
The Pearson Air Museum shows different kinds of unusual, special, and historic airplanes. For example, an experimental and one-of-a-kind aircraft known as the "flying pickle" originally based at Watts Airport (or Bernard's Airport), is shown at the Pearson. Alley reports on this special airplane based at Watts Airport in 1929, that was an experimental one-of-a-kind model. In this aircraft the pilot sits in an open air compartment, behind a roomy enclosed passenger cabin.

</doc>
<doc id="17494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17494" title="Newfoundland and Labrador">
Newfoundland and Labrador

Newfoundland and Labrador () is a province on the East Coast of Canada, and is the farthest east of all Canadian provinces and territories. The capital of Newfoundland and Labrador is St. John's. In 2001, 533,800 people lived in Newfoundland and Labrador.
Newfoundland is an island, while Labrador is within the mainland of Canada and on a border with Quebec.
The province of Newfoundland and Labrador was originally called Newfoundland and joined Canada in 1949, becoming the newest province of Canada, after being a colony of the United Kingdom. Until an agreement was reached in 1927, Quebec also claimed Labrador. 
In 2001, the name of Newfoundland changed to its new official name, Newfoundland and Labrador, while the postal code abbreviation changed from NF to NL. The island of Newfoundland, and part of Labrador, are in a time zone that is a half hour off from any other part of North America.

</doc>
<doc id="17495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17495" title="Greenfinch">
Greenfinch

The Greenfinch, "Carduelis", is a small passerine bird in the finch family Fringillidae. The genus "Carduelis" might be split up and in this case, the greenfinches would be separated in their old genus "Chloris" again.
This bird is widespread throughout Europe, north Africa and south west Asia. It is mainly resident, but some northernmost populations migrate further south. The Greenfinch has also been introduced into both Australia and New Zealand.
Woodland edges, farmland hedges and gardens with relatively thick vegetation are favoured for breeding. It nests in trees or bushes, laying 38 eggs. This species can form large flocks outside the breeding season, sometimes mixing with other finches and buntings. They feed largely on seeds, but also take berries.

</doc>
<doc id="17496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17496" title="St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador">
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador

St. John's is the capital of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. It is also the largest city in the province, with 100,646 people living there since 2006.
There is a large university in St. John's, so the city is home to many students.
Close to St. John's is Cape Spear, the easternmost point in North America.
St. John's is home to the IceCaps which is a professional ice hockey team that plays in the American Hockey League.

</doc>
<doc id="17497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17497" title="Nest">
Nest

A nest is place animals build to hold their eggs and/or provide a place to raise their babies. They are most typical of birds, but many other vertebrates do make nests.
Nests may be composed of organic material such as twigs, grass, and leaves. They may be a simple depression in the ground, or a hole in a rock, tree, or building. Nests can be found in all types of habitat.

</doc>
<doc id="17498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17498" title="Egg (biology)">
Egg (biology)

An egg results from fertilization of an ovum. The egg is a container for the zygote. It protects the zygote, and feeds the embryo. 
The animal embryo develops until it can survive on its own, at which point the egg hatches. Most vertebrates, arthropods and molluscs lay eggs outside the mother's body. They are always in some kind of container, a shell or covering. 
Reptiles, birds and monotremes lay cleidoic eggs: bird eggs are an example. These are a special kind of egg with a good supply of food and water. They have an outside covering which lets through gases so that carbon dioxide can get out, and oxygen can get in.
Fish, amphibia, insects and arachnids lay simpler eggs in greater numbers, but with much less protection and nourishment.
Some animals, mostly mammals, keep the zygote inside their body where the embryo grows until it is ready to be born. These are also cleidoic eggs, but all the development is done inside the mother's body, as with humans. 
Most mammals, and a number of marine reptiles, give live birth. Also, there are some invertebrates, such as scorpions, where the eggs develops inside the mother. They also give birth to live young.
The ostrich has the largest eggs of all living animals. Eggs, mostly bird eggs, are often eaten as food. The shell of an egg is a hard calcareous (CaCO) material. The shell of an ostrich egg can support the weight of a fully grown human.

</doc>
<doc id="17499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17499" title="Javan tiger">
Javan tiger

The Javan tiger ("Panthera tigris sondaica") is 1 of 3 extinct types of tigers. It lived on the island of Java in Indonesia. It became extinct in the 1970s-1990s. The last known sighting of one was in 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="17505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17505" title="1518">
1518


</doc>
<doc id="17506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17506" title="1528">
1528


</doc>
<doc id="17507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17507" title="1529">
1529


</doc>
<doc id="17508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17508" title="Abacus">
Abacus

An abacus is a very old tool used for math. It is still used in some parts of the world. Sometimes blind people will use an abacus, because they can feel the numbers easily. The most common abacuses work by moving beads on rods.
Abacuses can do addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and people can use them to find the square root of whole numbers. Expert, or very good, abacus users can sometimes do math quicker than basic calculators. There is a common Chinese abacus. This abacus is split into two kinds of basic rows, the top is for the "5"s, and the bottom is for the "ones". There are one or two beads in the top rows, and four or five beads in the bottom ones. For example, 8 is one bead on top and 3 below, because 5 + 3 = 8. Every column represents a different digit. The Abacus is really useful for math and is really fun to mess around with and just have fun with. Good to get for young children as toys or to help them learn. 

</doc>
<doc id="17509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17509" title="1573">
1573


</doc>
<doc id="17510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17510" title="1606">
1606


</doc>
<doc id="17511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511" title="1547">
1547

1547 was a common year starting on a Saturday in the Julian calendar. It was the 547th year of the 2nd millennium, the 47th year of the 16th century and the 8th year of the 1540s decade.
1547 was a year that marked the deaths of two powerful European Kings - Henry VIII of England and Francis I of France. In England, Henry's nine-year-old son took over as Edward VI of England, while in France, Henry II became the next King. Also, during this year, Ivan IV of Russia was crowned Tsar. He later became better known as Ivan the Terrible.

</doc>
<doc id="17512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17512" title="Accordion">
Accordion

An accordion is a musical instrument that has keys similar to a piano, but is small enough for a person to hold. It makes sounds using air pushed and pulled through reeds using a bellows. The accordion can also have buttons instead of keys. The 6-plus-6-system with three rows has the same fingering in all twelve scales.
The accordion was invented in 1822 in Germany by Friedrich Buschmann.

</doc>
<doc id="17513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17513" title="499 BC">
499 BC


</doc>
<doc id="17514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514" title="1781">
1781


</doc>
<doc id="17515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17515" title="1566">
1566


</doc>
<doc id="17516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17516" title="1714">
1714


</doc>
<doc id="17517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17517" title="1841">
1841


</doc>
<doc id="17518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17518" title="Georg Agricola">
Georg Agricola

Georg or Georgius Agricola (1494-1555) was a German scholar and scientist. He was one of the first people to study mining and minerals (stones and gems).

</doc>
<doc id="17519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17519" title="1440">
1440


</doc>
<doc id="17520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17520" title="1457">
1457


</doc>
<doc id="17521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17521" title="1428">
1428


</doc>
<doc id="17522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522" title="1525">
1525


</doc>
<doc id="17523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17523" title="1489">
1489


</doc>
<doc id="17524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17524" title="1494">
1494


</doc>
<doc id="17526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17526" title="Category:1555 deaths">
Category:1555 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17527" title="Category:1555">
Category:1555


</doc>
<doc id="17528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17528" title="Amiga CD32">
Amiga CD32

The Amiga CD32 was a game console made by Commodore International. It was based on the A1200 computer. It was basically a computer without the computer's main parts. It could support other things that could make it into a computer. It had CD-rom drive and could play CD32 games. They did not make many CD32 games.
It did not do very well.

</doc>
<doc id="17530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17530" title="GX4000">
GX4000

The GX4000 was a console made by Amstrad in 1990. At first, it was successful. But it did not continue its early success. The GX4000 games could be used with other Amstrad computers. Only 40 games were made for it. Soon it disappeared into the mist of history. These days it is very rare to see one that is still in working condition.

</doc>
<doc id="17531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17531" title="Category:Venezuela">
Category:Venezuela


</doc>
<doc id="17532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17532" title="Category:Venezuelan people">
Category:Venezuelan people


</doc>
<doc id="17533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17533" title="Category:1830 deaths">
Category:1830 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17534" title="Category:1783 births">
Category:1783 births


</doc>
<doc id="17535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17535" title="ApeXtreme">
ApeXtreme

ApeXtreme is a console created by Apex Digital Inc. It was released January 9, 2004.
It can do many things, like play computer games, DVDs, CDs, VCDs and use the Internet.
What it can do:

</doc>
<doc id="17536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17536" title="Category:1613">
Category:1613


</doc>
<doc id="17537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17537" title="Category:1606">
Category:1606


</doc>
<doc id="17538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17538" title="Category:1608">
Category:1608


</doc>
<doc id="17539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17539" title="Category:1573">
Category:1573


</doc>
<doc id="17540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17540" title="Category:1577">
Category:1577


</doc>
<doc id="17541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17541" title="Category:1566">
Category:1566


</doc>
<doc id="17542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17542" title="Category:1525">
Category:1525


</doc>
<doc id="17543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17543" title="Category:1529">
Category:1529


</doc>
<doc id="17544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17544" title="Category:1518">
Category:1518


</doc>
<doc id="17545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17545" title="Category:1501">
Category:1501


</doc>
<doc id="17546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17546" title="Category:1479">
Category:1479


</doc>
<doc id="17547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17547" title="Category:1478">
Category:1478


</doc>
<doc id="17549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17549" title="Category:1458">
Category:1458


</doc>
<doc id="17550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17550" title="Category:1440">
Category:1440


</doc>
<doc id="17551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17551" title="Category:1428">
Category:1428


</doc>
<doc id="17552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17552" title="Category:1420s">
Category:1420s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1420s which begins in the year 1420 and ends in the year 1429.

</doc>
<doc id="17554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17554" title="Category:1207">
Category:1207


</doc>
<doc id="17555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17555" title="Category:1194">
Category:1194


</doc>
<doc id="17573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17573" title="1617">
1617

Year 1617 (MDCXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Wednesday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17575" title="1623">
1623


</doc>
<doc id="17576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17576" title="1556">
1556


</doc>
<doc id="17577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17577" title="1625">
1625


</doc>
<doc id="17578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17578" title="1561">
1561


</doc>
<doc id="17588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17588" title="New Year's Day">
New Year's Day

New Year's Day is a holiday in many countries. It was created to welcome the new year. In the United States and most of the other countries in the world, New Year Day is celebrated on January 1.
The new year is an event that happens when a culture celebrates the end of one year and the beginning of the next. Cultures that measure yearly calendars all have new year celebrations.
In Christmas Style dating, the new year started on 25 December. This was used in Germany and England until the thirteenth century, and in Spain from the fourteenth to the sixteenth century. 
In Annunciation Style dating the new year started on 25 March, the feast of the Annunciation. This was used in many parts of Europe in the Middle Ages. The style was started by Dionysius Exiguus in AD 525. Annunciation Style was used in the Kingdom of Great Britain until January 1, 1752, except Scotland which changed to Circumcision Style dating on 1 January 1600. The rest of Great Britain changed to Circumcision Style on the 1 January after the change in Great Britain from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian calendar on 3/14 September 1752.

</doc>
<doc id="17597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17597" title="Wlazł kotek na płotek">
Wlazł kotek na płotek

Wlazł kotek na płotek (in English: "a kitten climbed a fence") is a popular Polish children's song. 
Original [Polish]
Wlazł kotek na płotek i mruga,
ładna to piosenka niedługa.
Nie długa, nie krótka, lecz w sam raz.
Zaśpiewaj koteczku jeszcze raz.
[English]
A kitten sits on the fence and it blinks.
It’s a very pretty song, and it’s not a long one.
Not a long one, not a short one, but just right.
Come on, little kitten, sing again.

</doc>
<doc id="17600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17600" title="Asthma">
Asthma

Asthma (or Asthma bronchiale) is a disease that hurts the airways inside the lungs. It causes the tissue inside the airways to swell. Asthma also causes the bands of muscle around the airways to become narrow. This makes it hard for enough air to pass through and for the person to breathe normally. Asthma also causes mucus-making cells inside the airways to make more mucous than normal. This blocks the airways, which are already very narrow during an asthma attack, and makes it even more difficult to breathe.
A person having an asthma attack often makes wheezing sounds when trying to breathe. This is the sound of air trying to pass through the very narrow airway. They also have shortness of breath, which means they cannot take a full deep breath. Chest tightness may happen which feels like their chest is being squeezed. They may also cough a lot.
Asthma attacks can be a medical emergency because they can be "fatal" (cause a person to die). There is no cure for asthma. There are treatments such as different kinds of medicines to help people with asthma. There are also things that people with asthma can do to help themselves to keep their asthma from getting worse.
There are a lot of risk factors for getting asthma. The exact reasons for each is not yet clearly understood. Some of the factors are believed to come from genetics. A person inherits genetic mutations from one or both of their parents that may increase the chances of developing asthma. "Epigenetics", which are changes in the way a gene acts, may also increase their chances of getting asthma. These epigenetic changes may also be inherited. They may happen when a baby is still growing inside its mother, or during childhood.
"Socioeconomic status" (SES) is also believed to play a part in developing asthma. A person's socioeconomic status is based on such things as how much money their family makes, where they live, and their education level. Race and ethnicity also may play a part. It also is related to access to medical care, personal beliefs, and dietary habits. People of lower socioeconomic status suffer higher rates of asthma, have worse outcomes, and also have higher asthma-related death rates than people of higher economic status.
The exact cause of asthma is not yet known. It is believed that it may be because of a of many different reasons:
"Genetics": When changes happen in a person's genes (called "mutations") these changes are passed on to their children. One or both parents may have these changes or "mutations" in their genes, and some or all of their children may be born with them, which means they "inherited" them. These mutations, once they happen, run in families from one generation to the next and are permanent mutations, they change the gene in the "DNA". These changes can make a person more likely to get certain diseases like asthma. In some diseases it may be only one change in one gene that may make a person get that disease, in asthma it may be changes in many different genes that may make a person more likely to get asthma.
"Epigenetics changes" or "modifications" cause different kind of changes that affect how a person's genes work or 'express themselves' in three different ways (called "epigenetic mechanisms"), but do not change the gene in the DNA. These epigenetic changes may be inherited, or they may happen "in utero" which is when a baby is still inside its mother. They may also happen in childhood, because of different reasons, like a respiratory infection, being exposed to chemicals or drugs, diet etc. These changes can be passed from one generation to the next but are not permanent and might only be passed down one or two generations. Even though epigenetic changes affect how a person's genes work they do not permanently change a person's genes. It is believed epigenetic changes may also make a person more likely to get certain diseases like asthma.
"Environmental factors" are things that affect a person; which can be either healthy or unhealthy. Unhealthy environmental factors are things like living in an area where there is a lot of air pollution, or living somewhere where there are lots of bugs in the house, or being around cigarette smoke.
If a person who has genetic or epigentic changes in their genes that makes them have a bigger chance of getting asthma ("genetic predisposition"), also has unhealthy environmental factors in their life, like living in a home that has a lot of "dust mites", then it is more likely that they will get asthma.
Atopy
"Atopy" is when there are changes in some of the genes a person is born with ("genetic inheritance"). These genetic changes make their body produce more Immunoglobulin E (IgE), a type of "antibody". They are also more sensitive to things things like chemicals, smoke and dust ("environmental antigens"). This "hypersensitivity" means they are more sensitive or "allergic" to things in the environment than people who do not have these changes in their genes and are not hypersensitive or "allergic".
This "hypersensitivity" causes their body to react in certain ways. Usually a person who is atopic develops "allergic rhinitis" which affects the "nasal passages" which are behind the nose and they are also more likely to get "atopic dermatitis" which causes skin rashes and "atopic asthma". Up to 40% of people with allergic rhinitis also have asthma. These three medical problems, "allergic rhinitis", "atopic dermatitis" and "atopic asthma" are called the "Atopic Triad" (a "triad" is when there is three of something). People who are atopic may also have other medical problems including food and drug allergies, stinging-insect hypersensitivity, hives ("urticaria"), Quincke's edema ("angioedema"), and contact dermatitis.
If a person has one parent who is atopic they have a chance of being atopic too. If they have two parents who are atopic they have an even bigger chance of being atopic.
There have been studies that show a link between acetaminophen (Tylenol) and asthma. For instance a 2008 analysis of information collected from a very large study called the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood, or the "Isaac study" for short, showed that children who had taken acetaminophen for a fever during the first year of their life had a 50% higher risk of getting asthma later on. The more acetaminophen children took the higher their risk of getting asthma. Children who took it once a month had threefold increase in their risk of getting asthma. An increase in asthma rates in multiple countries corresponded with increased sales of drugs which contained acetaminophen. Previously the American College of Physicians reported a link between non-atopic asthma and acetaminophen use based on results of The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Not all doctors are convinced of the link between acetaminophen and asthma.
"Children with asthma or at risk for asthma should avoid the use of acetaminophen." (McBride JT, 2011).
Atopic asthma
"Atopic" asthma is the most common form of asthma.
Cough-variant asthma
Cough-variant asthma is a type of asthma in which a cough is the main, and sometimes only sign. Cough-variant asthma usually does not cause wheezing or breathlessness and causes a dry, scratchy, mostly nonproductive cough (this means little or no phlegm is coughed up). About 30% of people who have cough-variant asthma will develop typical asthma.
Work-related asthma
Work related asthma are types of asthma that are caused or made worse by irritants in the environment at a person's place of work. The kind of jobs that may cause work related asthma are usually those in which there is a lot of smoke or chemicals are used. There are different types of work-related asthma (WRA):
1. Occupational asthma with latency: this asthma type is when the signs and symptoms of asthma occur after a period of time ("latency") after being exposed to the environmental irritants. e.g.: John starts working at a factory where chemicals are used the first week of January. At the end of March he starts developing the signs and symptoms of asthma. The period of time from when he started the job in January to when the signs and symptoms of asthma started in March is the "latency period".
2. Irritant-Induced Asthma (IIA) is occupational asthma without latency: this is an asthma type is when the signs and symptoms of asthma can occur immediately ("without latency") after being exposed to the environmental irritants. e.g. Frank starts a new job working as a janitor where he uses ammonia to clean. After opening the bottle of ammonia and breathing the fumes Frank starts finding it difficult to breath, his chest tightens up and he develops other signs and symptoms of asthma.
4. Work-aggravated asthma: this is when a person already has asthma and environmental triggers at their place of work makes it worse.
Exercise induced asthma
Exercise induced asthma (EIA) - also called exercise induced bronchospasm - is the term used to describe asthma cases in which exercise is the main, and many times the only trigger for an asthma attack. If a person already has a form of asthma or they are "atopic" there is more of a chance of getting EIA.
Nocturnal asthma
Nocturnal asthma: is the term used to describe asthma cases that get worse at night ("nocturnal").
Premenstrual asthma (PMA): is when asthma symptoms get worse during the premenstrual period. This condition may affect up to 40% of female asthma sufferers. For a diagnosis of PMA to be made it is necessary to have a detailed history of the timing of menstrual cycles along with asthma symptoms experienced, and the peak expiratory flow rate (PMA may cause the PEF to be lowered in the premenstrual period). It is helpful in making a diagnosis to keep a diary of symptoms and peak expiratory flow (PEF) rates.
Status asthmaticus
Status asthmaticus is a severe form of asthma in which an asthma attack gets worse as it goes along and the medicines that are usually used to treat asthma do not work. Status asthmaticus can be fatal.
Signs and symptoms in medicine are the way a medical condition affects a person's body. Sometimes the signs and symptoms of asthma may be "mild" which does not bother the person too much. At other times they may be "severe" which may make the person feel very sick.
Not every person with asthma has all the signs and symptoms of asthma all the time. A person may have some signs and symptoms during one asthma attack and have different symptoms during another asthma attack. Some people with asthma may have long periods of time between asthma attacks where they show no signs and experience no symptoms of asthma, while others may have some or all of the signs and symptoms everyday which become more severe during an attack. It also depends on what type of asthma a person has and whether they have a mild, moderate or severe case.
There are also some people with asthma who might only have signs and symptoms during certain times, such as those with exercise induced asthma, where the exercise triggers the symptoms. For some the signs and symptoms of asthma may be triggered or made worse ("exacerbated") when they have viral respiratory tract infections, often the type casued by human "rhinoviruses".
Early warning signs of an asthma attack are physical changes in health that a person with asthma has before they have the attack. By knowing the early warning signs a person may be able to take steps to keep from having an asthma attack or if they do have one, to keep it from getting worse.
Early warning signs
The early warning signs of asthma may include:
A "trigger factor" or "trigger" for short, is something that causes the signs and symptoms of a medical condition to begin in a person who already has that medical condition. Common triggers for asthma are: 
The best way to deal with asthma triggers is to learn what they are and avoid them if possible, and if not totally avoidable then adjust one's behavior to deal with them. Example: running on a cold winter day right up to the doorstep of a warm house and going immediately inside; the sudden temperature change can cause an attack and could have been avoided. In general but especially with a medical condition such as asthma it is necessary to be aware of one's environment and what's in it, both indoors and outdoors.
An asthma attack is when, after a period of time when aperson has had only a few or no symptoms of asthma, the asthma gets worse all of a sudden, usually because of being exposed to one or more triggers. When the asthma attack happens, the tissue inside the airways swell because of "inflammation" - which is how the body tries to protect itself from harmful things, like germs and irritants. When the tissues swell the opening (called the "lumen") in the airway gets very narrow.
The "smooth muscles" (which are the kind of muscles in the body that do not "contract" voluntarily, like the ones in the arm) around the bronchi and bronchioles begin to "spasm" or contract which makes the opening in the airway even narrower. This is called a "bronchospasm".
Inside the lining of the airways are glands called, "submucosal glands", and above them, closer to the opening in the airway are cells called "goblet cells" - because they are shaped kind of like a goblet, which is a type of cup. The submucosal glands and the goblet cells make mucous which helps protect the inside of the airways. The mucous in the airways of healthy lungs is a thin film which traps irritants such as dust particles and pollen so they do not damage the airways and keep them from entering the air sacs (alveoli).
There are tiny hairs lining the airway called "cilia". The cilia wave back and forth like a liitle whips, and help push the mucous and the trapped particles up the airways to the "pharynx". From there the mucous, the trapped particles from the lower airways can be coughed up (this is called "sputum").
During an asthma attack the submucosal glands and the goblet cells start making much more mucous than normal, and the mucous is also thicker than normal. This makes it very hard for the cilia to do their job, and bring the mucous up out of the airways. So now there is too much mucous being made, and not enough being brought up by the cilia. The airways are already to narrow to breathe properly because of the tissue swelling caused by inflammation and the constriction caused by the bronchospasms, so the extra mucous blocks the airway even more. This makes breathing very difficult. In fatal asthma attacks the airways can become so constricted and/or plugged with mucous that no air can get through at all.
There are other signs of breathing difficulty as in an asthma attack, which are important to learn, and knowing them can help tell if someone who cannot talk is having breathing problems. People who may not be able to let somebody know they are having breathing problems include babies and young children. 
Some of the other signs of asthma include:
A diagnosis of asthma is based on a person's:
Diagnostic Tests
There is no specific test that can tell if a person has asthma, however there are tests that can help in the diagnosis when the results are considered along with the medical and family history and physical exam
"Differential diagnoses" are different medical disorders which may cause the same symptoms. Before a doctor makes a "final diagnosis", which means they are sure of what medical disorder is causing the problem, they think of what other medical conditions have the same or almost the same symptoms, and make sure it's not one of them.
The differential diagnoses of asthma include:
Airway remodeling is when there are permanent physical changes to the airways that also affects how they work. This may happen after chronic long-term asthma. After cycles of inflammation, damage and repair to the airways. permanent remodeling of the airways may occur. This is when the physical structure of the airway changes. This will cause permanent airway narrowing (they are always more narrow than normal and get narrower during an asthma attack), bronchospasms are more easily triggered (bronchial hyperresponsivenes), airway edema (fluid in the airway), and mucus hypersecretion (too much mucous is made) as well as the build-up of collagen around the airway which is called fibrosis. Airway remodeling has been observed in chldren as young as six.
Not managing asthma properly can lead to airway remodeling and this can increase the risk of dying from an asthma attack. One of the main problems which cause poor asthma management is not using the asthma inhaler correctly. One of the main reasons for improper inhaler use is the asthma patient not having the proper knowledge in using the inhaler due to not receiving proper instruction.
Goblet cell and submucosal gland hyperplasia: Among the physical changes that may happen in airway remodeling is "goblet cell hyperplasia" and "submucosla gland hyperplasia". Submucosal glands and goblet cells make mucous which helps to protect the airways by trapping harmful particles like dust and pollen. The mucous is normally a thin film which lines the airways. The mucous and whatever particles they trap are brought up to the "pharynx" by tiny (microscopic) hairs on the inside of the airway that move back and forth called "cilia".
During an asthma attack the submucosal glands and goblet cells make too much mucous, and it is thicker than normal which makes it harder for the cilia to bring the mucous up. When airway remodeling happens the body may make many more submucosal glands and goblet cells than normal, which means even more mucous is made. There may be too much mucous for the cilia to bring up and the airway may become blocked. This is one of the reasons that people with airway remodeling often have more severe asthma. In fatal cases the airway may have become totally plugged causing "asphyxia".
Asthma can be controlled most often by avoiding contact with triggers and by using certain drugs. Most asthma sufferers carry special medicines around with them. These are called inhalers. The medicine inside the inhaler opens the tubes that go to the lungs. The inhaler is usually used to prevent an asthma attack, or to stop an attack that is already happening.
Rescue medicine — A rescue medicine is an inhaler ("puffer") that is used if a person thinks they are having an asthma attack.
Controller medicine — A controller medicine is a medicine in either a pill or an inhaler taken every day to prevent asthma attacks.
Common treatment in a hospital
Hospitals have other options they can use in an emergency when the regular treatments don't work:
Drugs that may worsen an asthma attack
There are certain types of drugs that make asthma worse or that can trigger such an attack. Certain types of drugs should only be used in very specific situations. Some of these drugs are: 
Often, having one medical problem makes it more likely a person will also have one or more other medical or psychiatric problems. These other disorders are the "comorbid problems" or "comorbidities". There are various comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions associated with asthma.
Respiratory disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Psychiatric disorders
Sleep disorders
Skin disorders
In medicine "epidemiology" is the study of what causes diseases and medical conditions, how often they happen, where they happen and who they happen to.
It is more common in developed countries than developing countries. The United States and Canada have some of the highest asthma rates in the world even though they are not poor countries. In Africa the country of South Africa has the highest asthma rate on the whole continent even though it is one of the richest countries.
More than 80% of the people who die from asthma are usually from low and middle income countries, but not always, as South Africa has the fourth highest death rate in the world even though it is one of the richer countries in the world. In the United States the death rates are higher for females, adults and people of African descent.
As of 2011, 235–300 million people worldwide are affected by asthma, and approximately 250,000 people die per year from the disease. Rates vary between countries with prevalences between 1 and 18%.
The amount of asthma cases reported each year has gotten much higher between the 1960s and 2008 Rates of asthma have plateaued in the developed world since the mid-1990s with recent increases primarily in the developing world. Asthma affects approximately 7% of the population of the United States and 5% of people in the United Kingdom. Canada, Australia and New Zealand have rates of about 14–15%.

</doc>
<doc id="17605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17605" title="Turkish">
Turkish

Turkish might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="17608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17608" title="Category:Pokémon">
Category:Pokémon


</doc>
<doc id="17609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17609" title="1690">
1690


</doc>
<doc id="17610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17610" title="890">
890


</doc>
<doc id="17611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17611" title="Bochum">
Bochum

Bochum is a city in the Ruhr area of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. It is part of the Arnsberg Government Region
Bochum has about 380,000 inhabitants.
The city is formed by the traditional industry of coal mining in the Ruhr area, but today there is no mining in Bochum anymore.
Today the most important institution in Bochum is the Ruhr-University Bochum, one of the biggest German universities.
It has an extremely wide spectrum of subjects, beginning with mathematics and science, social sciences, economy, engineering, laws, philosophy, historical subjects, theology, medicine, and languages even including Chinese and Polish.
Bochum has a rich cultural life and its theatre is one of the most prominent in Germany. Next to Bochum are the cities Essen and Hattingen

</doc>
<doc id="17614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17614" title="Progressive rock">
Progressive rock

Progressive rock is a type of rock music with complicated musical technique and composition. This means that the tempo, time signature, and style can change many times in a single song. 
Most normal rock songs follow a very simple pattern in the way they are arranged. This pattern is a verse followed by a chorus, then a different verse, and then the same chorus. Progressive rock is more complicated than this, and can require more skill to play.
Progressive rock was first made in the late 1960's, but became most popular in the 1970's. It continues to be popular today, too. Progressive rock began in England and spread throughout Europe. It remains most popular in Europe, but there are several notable American and Canadian progressive rock bands. This genre was influenced by classical music and jazz fusion. Over the years, different sub-genres of progressive rock have been created, such as symphonic rock, art rock, math rock, and progressive metal. 
Progressive rock artists wished to create music that was not limited to the structures of common popular rock and pop music. They wanted to make rock music that "progressed" to the complexity of jazz and classical music by creating a more serious, complex and sophisticated type of rock music. Progressive rock bands may have influences from psychedelic rock, folk music, traditional music, world music, and jazz or jazz fusion. It is also referred to as "prog rock" as an abbreviation, or as "Hobbit rock" because of frequent medieval or fantasy themes in the lyrics.
Progressive rock bands write and play songs that have many changes during each song. Regular rock songs have verses and a chorus, but progressive songs can have many different sections. For example, instead of having verses and choruses, progressive rock songs may have many different musical themes, solos, and musical moods. A typical progressive song might have a form such as: Introduction-Verse-Chorus-instrumental section-New verse-New chorus-Instrumental section-Ending.
Because of their depth and complexity, progressive rock songs are not played on pop music radio very often.
Some of the important progressive rock bands from the late 1960s and early 1970s include The Moody Blues, Jethro Tull; Yes, Genesis; Pink Floyd; Emerson; Lake & Palmer; Rush; Goblin; Gentle Giant; Van der Graaf Generator, and King Crimson.
Progressive rock is difficult to define, because progressive rock bands often play different types of progressive rock music which sound different. There are some common elements that are in most progressive rock band music, such as long, complex songs, unusual time signatures, unusual instruments or ways of using them, and use of improvisation, which means making up or inventing music while playing on stage.
Albums by progressive rock groups are often concept albums. In a concept album, the songs have a common theme, are arranged in a certain order and often tell a story or represent a larger concept.

</doc>
<doc id="17619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17619" title="San Juan, Puerto Rico">
San Juan, Puerto Rico

San Juan is the capital and largest city of Puerto Rico. The city's population is 433,733. It is the 42nd-largest city and the oldest European settlement in United States territory. Today, San Juan is Puerto Rico's most important seaport.
San Juan was founded in 1521. It was named after San Juan Bautista, or St. John the Baptist (name given by Christopher Columbus). San Juan is also known as "La Ciudad Amurallada". This means the "walled city". San Juan has many old buildings still standing today. Many Spanish explorers came during the Age of Discovery and built forts, churches, and other historical buildings. An example of a very old fort is "La Fortaleza". It is also known as "Palacio de Santa Catalina". In the sixteenth century, it was a Spanish fortress against Caribs. These were the people native to the Caribbean islands and Central America. Another old building is the oldest residence in Old San Juan, Casas de los Contrasfuertes (House of Buttresses).

</doc>
<doc id="17620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17620" title="Kashmir">
Kashmir

Kashmir (, ), previously spelled Cashmere, is a region in South-central Asia. Historically, the name Kashmir referred to the valley just to the south of the western end of the Himalayan mountain range. Today, Kashmir refers to a much larger area that includes the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (which includes the Kashmir Valley, Jammu region and Ladakh), Azad Kashmir and Gilgit–Baltistan (part of Pakistan), and Aksai Chin and the Trans-Karakoram Tract (part of China). The main "Valley of Kashmir" is a low fertile area surrounded by mountains and fed by many rivers. People like it for its natural beauty and simple lifestyle. The region is part of a border dispute between India and Pakistan.
In total it has an area of 230,166.1 square kilometres or (89,106 square miles). The population of the region is more than the individual populations of 127 UN member nations and its area is larger than that of 97 nations.
The Nilamata Purana says the valley is made from the waters and shows how the name of the land was derived from the process of desiccation (extreme drying out) –Ka means "water" and Shimir means "to desiccate". So, Kashmir stands for "a land desiccated from water".
Another etymology comes from a sage named Kashyapa, who settled people in this land by draining the lakes. So, "Kashmir" is derived from either "Kashyapa Mir" (the lake of Kashyapa) or "Kashyapa Meru" (the mountain of Kashyapa).
"Cashmere" is an archaic spelling of present-Kashmir, and in some countries it is still spelled this way.
The Kashmir conflict has existed since India and Pakistan became independent states. At first, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, Hari Singh, wanted his state to remain independent of both India and Pakistan. On 20 October 1947, tribesmen supported by Pakistan invaded Kashmir. Singh fought back at first, but on 27 October, he asked the Governor-General of India, Louis Mountbatten, for help. He agreed, but made Singh turn over Jammu and Kashmir to India. Once the papers of accession to India were signed, Indian soldiers entered Kashmir with orders to stop any further occupation, but they were not allowed to expel anyone from the state. Pakistan claimed that it was illegal for Singh to give Kashmir to Pakistan, and the First Kashmir War was started. India took the matter to the United Nations. The UN resolution asked Pakistan to vacate the areas it had occupied and asked India to assist the U.N. Plebiscite Commission to organize a plebiscite to determine the will of the people. Pakistan refused to vacate the occupied areas and the plebiscite was never held.
India and Pakistan have fought several wars over Kashmir. In 1949 and 1972 they agreed on a border for most of the Territories (except for the Siachen Glacier). This demarcation line which marks the border between India and Pakistan is known as the Line of Control. It is guarded by Indian and Pakistani troops.
The border between Aksai Chin (held by China) and Jammu and Kashmir (held by India) is known as Line of Actual Control.
The Kashmir border between the Punjab (Pakistan) and Indian-administered Kashmir is called the working boundary, but is not recognised by Pakistan. India has built a fence along part of this border.
The Siachen Glacier and the bordering Saltoro Range first saw military action in 1984 when the Indian Army occupied the glacier and the Saltoro range to prevent Pakistan from occupying the area. This operation was codenamed Operation Meghdoot. There have been several minor changes to the held positions. However, the Indian Armed forces have held onto the heights on the plateau, preventing the Pakistani soldiers from climbing up the Saltoro range.
The Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) refers to the current position that divides Indian and Pakistani troops in the Siachen Glacier region. The line extends from the northernmost point of the LOC (Line of Control) to Indira Col. This line runs across the edge of the Saltoro Range, which is a mountainous plateau with peaks that are over 8,000 meters tall. The current position of the AGPL follows the general line:
Indira Col - Sia La pass - Saltoro Kangri 1 - Bilafond La pass - K12 - Gyong La pass - NJ9842
Today Kashmir is split, as follows:
The Disputed territory of Kashmir is divided into five administrative Divisions, namely:
A group of Districts forms a Division, which is administered by a 'Divisional Commissioner'. Kashmir is now divided in twenty-one districts, grouped under five divisions jointly controlled by Pakistan and India respectively:
Kashmir's economy is centred around Agriculture, like that of Pakistan. Traditionally the staple crop of the valley was Rice, which formed the chief food of the people. In addition, corn, wheat, barley and oats were also grown. Given its temperate climate, it is suited for crops like Asparagus, Artichoke, seakale, broad beans, scarletrunners, beetroot, cauliflower and cabbage. Fruit trees are common in the valley, and the cultivated orchards yield pears, apples, peaches, and cherries. The chief trees are deodar (National tree of Pakistan), firs and Pines, chenar (State tree) or plane, Maple, birch and Walnut, apple, cherry.
Historically, Kashmir became known worldwide when Cashmere wool was exported to other regions and nations (exports have ceased due to decreased abundance of the cashmere goat and increased competition from Western China). Kashmiris are well adept at Knitting and making Pashmina Shawls, silk carpets, rugs, Kurtas, and Pottery. Saffron, too, is grown in Kashmir. Efforts are on to export the naturally grown fruits and vegetables as Organic foods mainly to the Greater Middle East region which it forms an integral part. Srinagar is known for its silver-work, Papier mache, wood-carving, and the weaving of silk.
The economy was badly damaged by the 2005 Pakistan earthquake which, as of 8 October 2005, resulted in over 70,000 deaths in the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir and around 1,500 deaths in Indian controlled kashmir.
The Indian-held portion of Kashmir is believed to have potentially rich rocks containing hydrocarbon reserves.
The economy of the region is focused on agriculture. People grow rice there. In the Indian part they also grow corn, such as wheat and barley. Its climate is different from that of most of the Indian subcontinent: It is milder. Therefore, crops like artichoke, cauliflower, cabbage and certain kinds of beans are also grown.
Cashmere wool is well-known almost anywhere in the world. Cashmere wool is wool from Cashmere goats. Because of conflicts over the territory, however, most Cashmere wool no longer comes from Kashmir.
Kashmir is home to the finest saffron in the world.
Tourism has been important in Kashmir for many years. Many people call the region "Paradise on Earth". Tourists from all over the world visit Kashmir. In the last ten years, fewer people have visited Kashmir because of terrorism, but it still remains one of the most sought after tourist destinations.
78% of the people in Kashmir are Muslims and Islam is the majority religion of the territory.

</doc>
<doc id="17634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17634" title="Rural area">
Rural area

Rural areas are areas which are not towns or cities. They are often farming or agricultural areas. These areas are sometimes called "the country" or "countryside". People who live "in the country" often live in small villages, but they might also live somewhere where there are no other houses nearby.
Rural is the opposite of urban, which means places such as cities where buildings and places where people work and live are all close together.
Many people who live in cities like to go to the country to relax. They go there for recreation, often for their holidays, or to read
In the U.S. and Angola the term "rural areas" technically describes a place that has less than 500 inhabitants per square mile.
in india the governments gives money and develops the rural areas.

</doc>
<doc id="17636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17636" title="Stephen Crane">
Stephen Crane

Stephen Townley Crane (November 1, 1871 - June 5, 1900) was an American writer. He was born on November 1, 1871 in Newark, New Jersey to Jonathan Townley Crane, a clergyman, and Mary Helen Peck Crane. He attended Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York, but did not graduate. He moved to New York City in 1892 to write about the slum life of Manhattan. His major works include the novella "Maggie: A Girl of the Streets" (1893), the war novel "The Red Badge of Courage" (1895), and the short story "The Open Boat" (1897). After the success of "Badge", his literary reputation declined. His health was poor. In May 1899, he entered a sanitarium in Badenweiler, Germany. On June 5, 1900, he died of tuberculosis. He is buried in the Evergreen Cemetery in Hillside, New Jersey. 

</doc>
<doc id="17637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17637" title="Lawrence's Goldfinch">
Lawrence's Goldfinch

The Lawrence's Goldfinch, "Carduelis lawrencei", is a small songbird of North America. Bigger than the Lesser Goldfinch, and smaller than the American Goldfinch, with less yellow markings than either.
It lives from central California and its southern coast in the United States, to Baja California in Mexico. Females have less yellow and do not have the black cap and chin of the males.
This bird is named after the American "ornithologist" (bird expert), George Newbold Lawrence.

</doc>
<doc id="17639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17639" title="George Newbold Lawrence">
George Newbold Lawrence

George Newbold Lawrence (October 20, 1806 - January 17, 1895) was an American businessperson and amateur ornithologist (bird expert).
Lawrence counted birds for Spencer Fullerton Baird and John Cassin, and the three men wrote "Birds of North America" in 1858.
Lawrence left his 8,000 bird skins to the American Museum of Natural History. The Lawrence's Goldfinch "Carduelis lawrencei" was named for him by Cassin.

</doc>
<doc id="17641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17641" title="Santa Claus">
Santa Claus

Commonly associated with Christmas, Santa Claus is mostly shown as a big and cheerful white-bearded man wearing a red suit with white trim. According to the American version of the legend, Santa, as he is often known, lives in the North Pole with his wife, Mrs. Claus, some elves who build his toys, and reindeer who pull his sled through the sky. Father Christmas, the Nordic version of the myth, is said to live in Lapland, Finland. He is also associated with bringing gifts to small children on Christmas by sliding down fireplace chimneys and reindeer pulling his sled.
Santa was most likely created from different traditions and characters from European and Christian culture, such as St. Nicholas, the Dutch Sinterklaas, and others. There are many popular culture items about Santa. Santa is known as Saint Nicholas, Saint Nick, Father Christmas, Kris Kringle, Kristingle, Christingle, Santy, and many other names.
Santa is said to live in a small hill called Korvatunturi in Lapland, Finland in the Nordic myth. There is a theme park in Rovaniemi, which is near Korvatunturi, called Santa Claus Village. 
The saint who inspired the legend of Sinterklaas, (and thus, Santa Claus) is Saint Nicholas, who lived in the 4th Century AD and had a reputation for secret gift-giving, especially to the poor and needy, such as putting coins in the shoes of those who left them out for him.
He is also said to live at the top of the world at the North Pole.

</doc>
<doc id="17642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17642" title="Cinnamon">
Cinnamon

Cinnamon is a spice got from the inner bark of "Cinnamomum verum". 
The spice is used in both sweet and savoury foods. It is very aromatic. People usually put cinnamon in sweet baked goods (such as cinnamon rolls), hot wine or liquors. 
Cinnamon was used to make the spiced wine, claret, in the Middle Ages. In India, cinnamon is commonly used in making flavoured tea. It is either directly added as small pieces or put in powdered form during the preparation of tea. It is known as "Daal-Cheeni" in Hindi.
The Sinhalese name is "kurundu". Cinnamon is grown as an export crop in Sri Lanka.
There is a literature which suggests that cinnamon spice may have positive effects on diabetes type II. This is not the view of the U.S, National Institutes of Health.

</doc>
<doc id="17643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17643" title="1186">
1186

Year 1186 (MCLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17644" title="1187">
1187


</doc>
<doc id="17645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17645" title="1188">
1188


</doc>
<doc id="17649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17649" title="Egg">
Egg

Egg can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="17651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17651" title="Science fiction">
Science fiction

Science fiction (often shortened to sci-fi or SF) is a kind of writing. Science fiction stories can be novels, movies, TV shows, comic books and other literature.
SF is often about the future. It can be about imaginary new science and inventions such as spaceships, time machines, and robots. Science fiction stories are often in a world that is very different from the real world. They can have science and tools that do not exist in reality. Science fiction stories often take place on other worlds. There are often alien creatures.
Science fiction is different from fantasy. Fantasy stories often have magic and other things that do not exist and are not science. Isaac Asimov was a famous science fiction writer. He once said that science fiction is possible, but fantasy is not.
Writers often use SF to explain everyday questions or problems by putting them in the future. Usually they invent a very different world to help people notice important ideas.
Science fiction changes over time. Some authors wrote SF books before this type of writing had a name. These writers and books were not called science fiction when they were published. But, they are often called science fiction today.
Two broad genres of science fiction are Hard SF and Soft SF. Although not everyone agrees on the exact definitions of these two types, the way they use science or the type of science used in the stories is different.
Hard science fiction, or "hard SF", is special because it uses true facts and theories from sciences. These sciences are very important in Hard SF: physics, astrophysics, and chemistry. Also, Hard SF can show worlds that more advanced technology may make possible. Many correct predictions of the future come from the hard science fiction subgenre. However, there have been many incorrect ideas about the future, too. Some hard SF writers have also worked as professional scientists. A few of these scientist/writers are Gregory Benford and Geoffrey A. Landis, while mathematician authors include Rudy Rucker and Vernor Vinge. Other noteworthy hard SF authors include Arthur C. Clarke, Hal Clement, Isaac Asimov, Greg Bear, Stanislav Lem, Larry Niven, Robert J. Sawyer, Stephen Baxter, Alastair Reynolds, Charles Sheffield, and Greg Egan.
Soft science fiction stories take ideas from social sciences such as psychology, economics, political science, sociology, and anthropology. Some important writers in this category include Ursula K. Le Guin and Philip K. Dick. Soft SF can be mostly about character and emotion. Ray Bradbury won a prize called the SFWA Grand Master and writes in this style. The Soviet Union produced social science fiction too. Some examples are Strugatsky brothers, Kir Bulychov and Ivan Yefremov.
Some Social SF and Soft SF can be types of speculative fiction, for example utopian or dystopian stories. George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four", Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World" and Margaret Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale", are examples. Some people think that satirical novels in fantastic settings (places) such as "Gulliver's Travels" by Jonathan Swift are speculative fiction.
Within Hard or Soft SF, there are different types, or subgenres, of science fiction. Each subgenre is a group of stories that uses similar ideas or styles of writing. Publishing companies and critics put works of SF into different subgenres to help describe the work to help readers choose which books to read ro movies to watch. Assigning genres is not simple. Some stories can be in two or more genres at the same time. Other stories may not fit any genre.
In Alternate (or alternative) history stories, writers imagine how the past might have been different. These stories may use time travel to change the past. Some set a story in a universe with a different history from our own. These are some important alternate history books:
The Sidewise Award is for the best works in this subgenre. The name Sidewise is taken from Murray Leinster's 1934 story "Sidewise in Time." Harry Turtledove is one of the most famous writers in the subgenre. He is often called the "master of alternate history".
Apocalyptic fiction is about the end of civilization. There are several types: through war ("On The Beach"), pandemic ("The Last Man"), astronomic impact ("When Worlds Collide"), ecological disaster ("The Wind From Nowhere"), or mankind's self-destruction ("Oryx and Crake"), or some other general disaster. Apocalyptic SF may also be about world or civilization after a disaster.
Cyberpunk began in the early 1980s. Bruce Bethke used this word as the title for a short story in 1980 by putting together two words: "cybernetics" and "punk". Soon, people used this word to describe William Gibson's book, "Neuromancer". Cyberpunk authors can put their stories in different settings. Stories usually take place in the near-future and the settings are often dystopian (characterized by misery). These are often societies with very advanced technology. A few huge corporations usually control the society. Another early cyberpunk novel that has become a classic is "Snow Crash" by Neal Stephenson.
Military science fiction stories happen during wars. These wars can be between different countries, different planets, or between different species. The stories are told by characters who are soldiers. They include detail about military technology, rules, and history. Some Military SF may be similar to real historical conflicts. Heinlein's "Starship Troopers" is an early example. Another is the Dorsai novels of Gordon Dickson. Joe Haldeman's "The Forever War" is a response to the World War II–style stories of earlier military SF authors. Haldeman was a soldier in the Vietnam War. Important military SF authors include John Ringo, David Drake, David Weber, and S. M. Stirling. Baen Books is known for cultivating military science fiction authors.
Superhuman stories are about humans who get special abilities that are not normal. Maybe the new powers come from nature. Two examples of this type are Olaf Stapledon's novel "Odd John" and Theodore Sturgeon's "More Than Human". Sometimes scientists give people special powers on purpose. one example is A.E. van Vogt's novel "Slan". Frederik Pohl's novel "Man Plus" is another good example from this category. In that book, government scientists make a man into a powerful cyborg (part human, part machine).
These stories usually have two main points. One is the feeling of loneliness and separation that these superhuman people feel. The other is society's reaction to them.
Space opera is adventure science fiction in outer space or on distant planets. Action is more important than the science or characters. There is usually a strong hero and a very big conflict. The action often moves to many different places. Edward E. (Doc) Smith was an early Space opera writer. Flash Gordon and Star Wars are also popular examples.
Some people may think that Space Western is a kind of Space opera. It takes ideas from books and movies about exploring the American Old West and moves them to space in the future. These stories are often on "frontier" colony worlds (colonies that have only recently been terraformed and/or settled) serving as stand-ins for the backdrop of lawlessness and economic expansion that were predominant in the American west. Some examples are "Firefly" and the movie "Serenity" by Joss Whedon. Anime programs like "Cowboy Bebop" and "Outlaw Star" are also Space Westerns. Han Solo from "Star Wars" is an important Space Western character.
The first important time travel novel was Mark Twain's "A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court". The most famous is H. G. Wells's 1895 novel "The Time Machine". Well's book uses a machine that allows an operator to travel to an exact time. Twain's time traveler is struck in the head. The term "time machine", was invented by Wells. Now it is the name for any vehicle that can take a rider to a one date. Ray Bradbury's 1952 short story called "A Sound of Thunder" is a more recent and very famous example of this genre. Time travel stories can be complicated. They have logical problems such as the grandfather paradox. Time travel is a popular subject in modern science fiction, in print, movies, and television.
Science fiction fandom is the "community of the literature of ideas... the culture in which new ideas emerge and grow before being released into society at large". Members of this community, "fans", are in contact with each other at conventions or clubs, through print or online fanzines, or on the Internet using web sites, mailing lists, and other resources.
SF fandom emerged from the letters column in "Amazing Stories" magazine. Soon fans began writing letters to each other, and then grouping their comments together in informal publications that became known as fanzines. Once they were in regular contact, fans wanted to meet each other, and they organized local clubs. In the 1930s, the first science fiction conventions gathered fans from a wider area. Conventions, clubs, and fanzines were the main fan activities, or "fanac", for decades, until the Internet improved communication among a much larger population of interested people.
There are two very important science fiction awards: the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award. The Hugo is presented by the World Science Fiction Society at Worldcon each year. The Nebula is presented by SFWA and voted on by the community of authors. One important award for science fiction movies is the Saturn Award. The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Horror movies gives this award each year..
There are national awards, like Canada's Aurora Award and the UK Arthur C. Clarke Award, regional awards, like the Endeavour Award presented at Orycon for works from the Pacific Northwest, special interest or subgenre awards like the Chesley Award for art or the World Fantasy Award for fantasy. Magazines may organize reader polls, notably the Locus Award.
Conventions (in fandom, shortened as "cons"), are held in cities around the world, catering to a local, regional, national, or international membership. General-interest conventions cover all aspects of science fiction, while others focus on a particular interest like media fandom, filking, etc. Most are organized by volunteers in non-profit groups, though most media-oriented events are organized by commercial promoters. The convention's activities are called the "program", which may include panel discussions, readings, autograph sessions, costume masquerades, and other events. Activities that occur throughout the convention are not part of the program; these commonly include a dealer's room, art show, and hospitality lounge (or "con suites").
Conventions may host award ceremonies. Worldcons present the Hugo Awards each year. SF societies are a year-round base of activities for science fiction fans. They may be associated with an ongoing science fiction convention, or have regular club meetings, or both. Most groups meet in libraries, schools and universities, community centers, pubs or restaurants, or the homes of individual members. Long-established groups like the New England Science Fiction Association and the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society have clubhouses for meetings and storage of convention supplies and research materials.
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA) was founded by Damon Knight in 1965 as a non-profit organization to serve the community of professional science fiction authors, 24 years after his essay "Unite or Fie!" had led to the organization of the National Fantasy Fan Federation. Fandom has helped support related groups as they started to form, including media fandom, the Society for Creative Anachronism, gaming, filking, and furry fandom.
The first science fiction fanzine, "The Comet", was published in 1930. Fanzine printing methods have changed over the decades, from the mimeograph and the ditto machine, to modern photocopying. The number of copies was usually not enough to use commercial printing. Modern fanzines are printed on computer printers or at local copy shops, or they may only be sent as email. The best known fanzine (or "'zine") today is "Ansible". David Langford is the editor and it has won several Hugo awards. Artists working for fanzines have risen to prominence in the field, including Brad W. Foster, Teddy Harvia, and Joe Mayhew; the Hugos include a category for Best Fan Artists. The earliest organized fandom online was the SF Lovers community, originally a mailing list in the late 1970s with a text archive file that was updated regularly. In the 1980s, Usenet groups greatly expanded the circle of fans online. In the 1990s, the development of the World-Wide Web made the online fan community much, much larger. Fans created thousands and then millions of web sites devoted to science fiction and related genres for all media. Most of these websites are small, ephemeral, or about very specific topics. Though sites like SF Site and Read and Find Out give readers a broad range of references and reviews about science fiction.
Fan fiction is non-commercial fiction created by people who love an SF story or world. Fans write stories that take place in the setting of an established book, movie, or television series. Some people call it "fanfic". In some cases, the copyright owners of the books, movies, or television series have instructed their lawyers to issue "cease and desist" letters to fans.

</doc>
<doc id="17654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17654" title="Blaise Pascal">
Blaise Pascal

Blaise Pascal (1623 – 1662) was a French mathematician. He was born in Clermont-Ferrand, France. His mother died when he was three years old. His father's name was Étienne. He had two sisters, Jaqueline and Gilberte. Pascal was completely educated by his father. Pascal was considered a child prodigy. Though best known for his works in math, including the creation of Pascal's Triangle, which is named after him, and developments in the field of probability, Pascal was also a scientist. He wrote in support of the scientific method and also contributed to physics. Later he wrote two books about Christianity. Also, the Pascal unit was named after him.
Pascal died in Paris, France at 39. He had several illnesses; it is not known which of them caused his death.
Pascal invented a form of counting machine which helped inventors create the calculator in the 20th century.
[[Category:Scientists from Paris]
]

</doc>
<doc id="17656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17656" title="Pascal's Triangle">
Pascal's Triangle

Pascal's Triangle is a mathematical triangular array. It is named after French mathematician Blaise Pascal, but it was used in China 3 centuries before his time.
Pascal's triangle can be made as follows. On the first row, write only the number 1. Then, to get the numbers of following rows, add the number that can be seen above and to the left (if any) and the number above and to the right (if any) to find the new value. For example, the numbers 1 and 3 in the fourth row are added to make 4 in the fifth row. 
The triangle has many uses in probability. It can also be used in binomial expansions. For example
Notice the coefficients are the third row of Pascal's triangle: 1, 2, 1.
In general, when a binomial is raised to a positive integer power we have:
where the coefficients "a" in this expansion are precisely the numbers on row "n" + 1 of Pascal's triangle; in other words,
Formally speaking, the way of making the Pascal's Triangle uses Pascal's rule, which states that
for non-negative integers "n" and "k" where "n" ≥ "k" and with the initial condition
Pascal's triangle generalizes readily into higher dimensions. The three-dimensional version is called Pascal's pyramid or "Pascal's tetrahedron". A higher-dimensional analogue is generically called a "Pascal's simplex". See also pyramid, tetrahedron, and simplex.
The first and last number in each row is always 1.
The second number in each row is the row number. In a binomial expansion, this second number is equal to the power. (This makes the 'first' row, 1, actually the zero row). 
The rows always read the same forward and backward. 
The sum of the numbers in each row is double the sum of the numbers in the row before. The sum of each row is 2.

</doc>
<doc id="17661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17661" title="Antidisestablishmentarianism">
Antidisestablishmentarianism

Antidisestablishmentarianism is a political position. It means "to keep an established church". A official state church is called the "established" church, so a disestablishmentarian is a person who wants to stop the state church. These people say a state church hurts the freedom of religion. These people say the state should be secular, meaning religion and the country are separate. This idea is called disestablishmentarianism. So antidisestablishmentarianism wants to keep the state church.
It is famous because it is one of the longest words in the English language. 
The word comes from England in the 1800s. In England, Ireland and Wales, there was an official state church called the Anglican Church. Ireland disestablished in 1871, and Wales disestablished in 1920. England still has the Anglican Church as the state church.
In 2014 Nick Clegg, who was the Leader of the Liberal Democrats at the time, said that he thought the Church of England should no longer be the established church. David Cameron, who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, said the establishment helps the church and state.
Antidisestablishmentarianism is one of the longest words in the English language. It has 28 letters and 12 syllables. It is considered to be the longest word, if you do not count technical terms. For example, "pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis" is a technical term for a lung disease made by people who wanted it to be the longest word.
The word became famous because of a popular television show in the 1950s called "The $64,000 Question", where someone spelled it and won. Duke Ellington, a jazz artist, had a song called "You're Just an Old Antidisestablishmentarianismist". Eminem, a rapper, used the word in his song "Almost Famous".

</doc>
<doc id="17662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17662" title="1193">
1193


</doc>
<doc id="17663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17663" title="Sarah McLachlan">
Sarah McLachlan

Sarah McLachlan (born January 28, 1968) is a Canadian singer-songwriter who is known for her emotional music. She was adopted and raised in Halifax, Nova Scotia. She went to the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design, then moved to Vancouver, British Columbia.
Her recording company, Nettwerk, released her first album in 1988. After recording several albums, she organized the all-female music festival Lilith Fair in 1997, 1998, and 1999. Some of the money made from these concerts went to women's charities. McLachlan received the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Visionary Award in 1998 for helping women's music.
She married her drummer, Ashwin Sood, in 1997. They have a daughter, India, born in 2002.
McLachlan has been written about in magazines such as Rolling Stone, Time, and Entertainment Weekly. She has won Grammy and Juno awards for her music.
She funds a Vancouver program that helps poor children learn music. She has played at charity concerts, such as for victims of the December 26, 2004 tsunami and at the 2005 Live 8 concert in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
Some of McLachlan's best-known songs include "The Path of Thorns", "Into the Fire", "Possession", "Building a Mystery", "Sweet Surrender", "Adia", "Angel", and "World on Fire".
Albums with only new songs:
Live EPs (shorter albums) were released in 1992 and 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="17665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17665" title="Mark Twain">
Mark Twain

Samuel Langhorne Clemens (November 30, 1835 – April 21, 1910), more widely known as Mark Twain, was a well known American writer born in Florida, Missouri. He worked mainly for newspapers and as a steamboat pilot on the Mississippi River before he became a writer. He married in 1870, and raised his family in Hartford, Connecticut. In later life he invested and lost the money that his writing had made, and toured the world giving lectures that brought him enough money to pay his debt and recover his fortune. 
Clemens was best known for his works in fiction, and especially for his use of humour. His first published story, in 1865, was "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County."
"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" is considered by many to be Clemens' best work. This story of a white boy who helps a black man escape slavery in the southern United States is known for its humanity.
Clemens's style was usually informal and humorous. This made him different from many important 19th century writers whose books he disliked. For example, he greatly disliked Jane Austen's works, such as "Sense and Sensibility" and "Pride and Prejudice", and famously remarked, "She makes me detest (hate) all her people, without reserve."
Actor Hal Holbrook plays Mark Twain on stage in a one-man show called "Mark Twain Tonight".
Halley's Comet appeared in the sky during the year Twain was born and the year he died. This periodic comet comes back every 74 years, which is how long he lived.

</doc>
<doc id="17668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17668" title="Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban">
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. The book was released on July 8, 1999. It covers Harry Potter's third year at Hogwarts. A movie based on the book was released on May 31, 2004. This is the only book where Lord Voldemort does not make an appearance.
After accidentally inflating his Aunt Marge, Harry leaves the Dursleys, and catches a ride on the street on a magical bus called The Knight Bus. Before he begins his way back to Hogwarts, he learns of Sirius Black, a mass murderer, believed to have killed thirteen people with a single curse. Black has escaped from the wizard prison, Azkaban. Harry also finds that he is not expelled for inflating Aunt Marge and Cornelius Fudge. The Minister Of Magic just asks him to promise not to wander into muggle London. Mr. Weasley tells Mrs. Weasley of Siruis Black's motive to kill Harry. When Harry overhears this he is told not to go looking for Black. Later in the book, Harry soon realizes why. 

</doc>
<doc id="17669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17669" title="Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire">
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is the fourth book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. It was published on 8 July 2000. It was made into a movie that came out in 2005.
In this book, Harry is chosen as one of the Hogwarts champions to compete in the Triwizard Tournament, a inter-school competition between Hogwarts, Durmstrang and Beauxbatons. Although each school is only supposed to have one champion, Harry is chosen to act as a second champion for Hogwarts along with Cedric Diggory.This makes Ron angry which causes a temporary fall out. The four school champions are tasked with completing a series of three challenges. These challenges include stealing a golden egg from a dragon, rescuing a friend from beneath the Black Lake and finding the Triwizard Cup from within a maze filled with dangerous magical creatures. When he touches the Triwizard Cup for the first time with Cedric Diggory he is whisked away to a cemetery. Harry then discovers that the cemetery is full of the Dark Lord's followers. Wormtail then kills Cedric and then puts the soul of the Dark Lord into a potion of regeneration. Then the Dark Lord rises again for the first time in thirteen years. He challenges Harry for a wizards duel but their wands connect and cause the Reverse Spell Effect. A ghostly Cedric appears form the Dark Lord's wand and asks Harry to return his body to his parents. Then Harry breaks the connection but the Dark Lord screams to his servants to stop Harry but later Harry escapes. Then he is greeted by the headmaster of the school and The Minister of Magic. Then Harry finds out that one of his school teachers, Alastor Moody, is actually a follower of the Dark Lord in disguise. He confesses to the headmaster under the influence of a truth potion. Later Harry was in the hospital wing when the Minister and Minerva Mcgonagall came in arguing. It then was known that the Minister had set a dementor on the disguised man. Then the headmaster started arguing that until he reviled that Harry had seen the Dark Lord return. But the minister refused to believe it and handed Harry his winnings. Later when they were going home one of Harry's friends told him that she had caught a journalist who told lies. 

</doc>
<doc id="17670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17670" title="Crohn's disease">
Crohn's disease

Crohn's disease is a disease that causes the intestines to become swollen. It is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The intestines may also develop ulcers. People with Crohn's disease often have pain in the stomach, diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss. Crohn's can also cause skin rashes, arthritis, and swollen eyes. It is named after Burrill Bernard Crohn, who described cases in 1932. It was first
described by Giovanni Battista Morgagni (1682–1771) in the 18th century.
Nobody knows exactly what causes Crohn's disease. In the disease, the person's body attacks itself. The immune system attacks healthy parts of the digestive tract. This causes swelling in the digestive tract.
Though Crohn's is an immune-related disease, it is not an autoimmune disease (the immune system is not triggered by the body itself). The exact underlying immune problem is not clear. Crohn's disease seems to be connected to the person's genes. People whose brothers or sisters have the disease are the most likely to get it. Men and women can both be affected by Crohn's disease.
Managing Chrohn's disease includes both lifestyle changes and various kind of medication. It is a chronic condition for which there is no cure. Certain parasitic intestinal worms appear to make the bowel less inflamed. It is supposed that the worms modify the immune reactions in the parts of the intestine where they live.
Alternative medicine of various kinds has been tried, with uncertain results.

</doc>
<doc id="17675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17675" title="Pet door">
Pet door

Pet doors, also known as cat doors, dog doors, doggie doors, or in the United Kingdom, cat flaps, are small doors for pets. They are usually built in regular doors, but can also be in windows or walls. They usually have the hinge on the top, with no latch, so the animal can push their way in and out. Newer models sometimes only let the pet go outside, but not inside. Others have a latch and something that can be put on the pet that makes the latch open when the pet gets close to the door. They are most commonly used for pet cats, but can also be used for dogs, miniature pigs, or other small pets.
The pet door was developed by Isaac Newton.

</doc>
<doc id="17681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17681" title="Mount Rainier">
Mount Rainier

Mount Rainier is a mountain 54 miles (87 kilometres) southeast of Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The volcano is the highest mountain in the Cascade Range, at 14,410 feet (4,392 metres). The top of the mountain is mostly covered by snow and glaciers. Rainier is an active volcano, but has not had an eruption for more than 100 years. Some describe Rainier as dormant or inactive.
On March 2, 1899, U.S. President William McKinley made the mountain and area around it Mount Rainier National Park. It was the country's fifth national park.

</doc>
<doc id="17686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686" title="Fort Knox">
Fort Knox

Fort Knox is an U.S. Army post in Kentucky. Named after Henry Knox, the fort is now the site of the U.S. Bullion Reservatory (where the United States keeps its gold). The fort's fortifications were built in 1862 during the American Civil War; however, the camp became abandoned until 1917. 
It is named for Henry Knox, a general in the American Revolutionary War.
The James Bond book and film "Goldfinger" is about somebody trying to blow up Fort Knox

</doc>
<doc id="17690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17690" title="Maxwell's equations">
Maxwell's equations

In the 1860s James Clerk Maxwell published equations that describe how charged particles give rise to electric and magnetic force per unit charge. The force per unit charge is called a field. The particles could be stationary or moving. These, together with the Lorentz force equation, provide everything you need to calculate the motion of particles in electric and magnetic fields.
Maxwell's equations describe how electric charges and electric currents create electric and magnetic fields. Further, they describe how an electric field can generate a magnetic field, and vice versa. 
The first equation allows you to calculate the electric field created by a charge. The second allows you to calculate the magnetic field. The other two describe how fields 'circulate' around their sources. Magnetic fields 'circulate' around electric currents and time varying electric fields, Ampère's law with Maxwell's correction, while electric fields 'circulate' around time varying magnetic fields, Faraday's law.
where the following table provides the meaning of each symbol and the SI unit of measure:
and
where formula_4 is the "free" electric charge density (in units of C/m), not counting the dipole charges bound in a material, and formula_5 is the electric displacement field (in units of C/m). This equation is like Coulomb's law for non-moving charges in vacuum.
The next integral form (by the divergence theorem), also known as Gauss' law, says the same thing:
formula_7 is the area of a differential square on the closed surface A. The surface normal pointing out is the direction, and formula_8 is the free charge that is inside the surface.
In a "linear material", formula_5 is directly related to the electric field formula_10 with a constant called the permittivity, formula_11 (This constant is different for different materials):
You can pretend a material is linear, if the electric field is not very strong. 
The permittivity of free space is called formula_13, and is used in this equation:
Here formula_10 is the electric field again (in units of V/m), formula_16 is the total charge density (including the bound charges), and formula_13 (approximately 8.854 pF/m) is the permittivity of free space. One can also write formula_11 as formula_19. Here, formula_20 is the permittivity of the material when compared to the permittivity of free space. This is called the relative permittivity or "dielectric constant".
See also Poisson's equation.
formula_22 is the magnetic flux density (in units of teslas, T), also called the magnetic induction.
This next integral form says the same thing: 
The area of formula_7 is the area of a differential square on the surface formula_25. The direction of formula_7 is the surface normal pointing outwards on the surface of formula_25.
This equation only works if the integral is done over a closed surface.
This equation says, that in every volume the sum of the magnetic field lines that go in equals the sum of the magnetical field lines that go out. This means that the magnetic field lines must be closed loops. Another way of saying this is that the field lines cannot start from somewhere. 
This is the mathematical way of saying: "There are no magnetic monopoles".
This next integral form says the same thing: 
Here formula_30
This is what the symbols mean:
Φ is the magnetic flux that goes through the area A that the second equation describes,
E is the electric field that the magnetic flux causes,
s is a closed path in which current is induced, for example a wire,
v is the instantaneous velocity of the line element (for moving circuits).
The electromotive force is equal to the value of this integral. Sometimes this symbol is used for the electromotive force: formula_31, do not confuse it with the symbol for permittivity that was used before.
This law is like Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction.
Some textbooks show the right hand sign of the integral form with an "N" (N is the number of coils of wire that are around the edge of "A") in front of the flux derivative. The "N" can be taken care of in calculating "A" (multiple wire coils means multiple surfaces for the flux to go through), and it is an engineering detail so it's left out here.
The negative sign is needed for conservation of energy. It is so important that it even has its own name, Lenz's law.
This equation shows how the electric and magnetic fields have to do with each other. For example, this equation explains how electric motors and electric generators work. In a motor or generator, the field circuit has a fixed electric field that causes a magnetic field. This is called fixed excitation. The varying voltage is measured across the armature circuit.
Maxwell's equations are used in a right-handed coordinate system. To use them in a left-handed system, without having to change the equations, the polarity of magnetic fields has to made opposite (this is not wrong, but it is confusing because it is not usually done like this).
H is the magnetic field strength (in units of A/m), which you can get by dividing the magnetic flux B by a constant called the permeability, μ (B = μH), and J is the current density, defined by: 
J = ∫ρvdV 
v is a vector field called the drift velocity. It describes the speeds of the charge carriers that have a density described by the scalar function ρ.
In free space, the permeability μ is the permeability of free space, μ, which is "exactly" 4π×10 W/A·m, by definition. Also, the permittivity is the permittivity of free space ε. So, in free space, the equation is:
The next integral form says the same thing:
"s" is the edge of the open surface "A" (any surface with the curve "s" as its edge is okay here), and "I" is the current encircled by the curve "s" (the current through any surface is defined by the equation: "I" = ∫"J·dA)."
If the electric flux density does not change very fast, the second term on the right hand side (the displacement flux) is very small and can be left out, and then the equation is the same as Ampere's law.
There are only two covariant Maxwell Equations, because the covariant field vector includes the electrical and the magnetical field.
"Mathematical note: In this section the abstract index notation will be used."
In special relativity, Maxwell's equations for the vacuum are written in terms of four-vectors and tensors in the "manifestly covariant" form. This has been done to show more clearly the fact that Maxwell's equations (in vacuum) take the same form in any inertial coordinate system. This is the "manifestly covariant" form:
and
The second equation is the same as:
Here formula_38 is the 4-current, formula_39 is the field strength tensor (written as a 4 × 4 matrix), formula_40 is the Levi-Civita symbol, and formula_41 is the 4-gradient (so that formula_42 is the d'Alembertian operator). (The formula_43 in the first equation is implicitly summed over, according to Einstein notation.) The first tensor equation says the same thing as the two inhomogeneous Maxwell's equations: Gauss' law and Ampere's law with Maxwell's correction. The second equation say the same thing as the other two equations, the homogeneous equations: Faraday's law of induction and the absence of magnetic monopoles.
formula_38 can also be described more explicitly by this equation: formula_45 (as a contravariant vector), where you get formula_38 from the charge density ρ and the current density formula_47. The 4-current is a solution to the continuity equation:
formula_48
In terms of the 4-potential (as a contravariant vector) formula_49, where φ is the electric potential and formula_50 is the magnetic vector potential in the Lorentz gauge formula_51, "F" can be written as:
which leads to the 4 × 4 matrix rank-2 tensor:
The fact that both electric and magnetic fields are combined into a single tensor shows the fact that, according to relativity, both of these are different parts of the same thing—by changing frames of reference, what looks like an electric field in one frame can look like a magnetic field in another frame, and the other way around.
Using the tensor form of Maxwell's equations, the first equation implies 
formula_54
(See Electromagnetic four-potential for the relationship between the d'Alembertian of the four-potential and the four-current, expressed in terms of the older vector operator notation).
Different authors sometimes use different sign conventions for these tensors and 4-vectors (but this does not change what they mean).
formula_39 and formula_56 are "not" the same: they are related by the Minkowski metric tensor formula_57: formula_58. This changes the sign of some of "F"'s components; more complex metric dualities can be seen in general relativity.

</doc>
<doc id="17691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17691" title="Henry Knox">
Henry Knox

Henry Knox (1750-1806) was a military leader for the Americans during the American Revolutionary War. Originally from Boston, Massachusetts, he was appointed Chief Artillery Officer of the Continental Army. He is best known for transporting cannons and other artillery from Fort Ticonderoga to Boston through icy conditions using oxen. Later, George Washington named him the first Secretary of War. 
Fort Knox in Kentucky & Maine are named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="17692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17692" title="American Revolutionary War">
American Revolutionary War

The American Revolutionary War was a war fought between Great Britain and the original 13 British colonies in North America. The war took place from 1775 to 1783. The Continental Army (army of the colonies), led by George Washington, defeated the armies of the British Empire.
After the war ended, the Thirteen Colonies became independent, which meant that the British Empire was no longer in charge of them. They together became the first 13 states of a new country called the United States of America.
The war started after years of problems between the British Empire and the colonists of North America after the French and Indian War. People in the Thirteen Colonies disliked many of the actions of the British Government. For many years the British government decided which countries could trade with the colonies, instead of the colonies deciding it themselves. Many colonists wanted free trade. 
In 1765, the British Parliament needed money for the French and Indian War, and passed a Law called the Stamp Act. This law said that colonists had to buy stamps for legal papers, newspapers, and even playing cards, as other British people did. The money from the stamps went to the King. The colonies did not follow this law. The colonies kept refusing to do what the King wanted. The Boston Tea Party and Boston Massacre caused people to become more angry about the situation. The British sent more soldiers (Red Coats) to keep control of the colonies and they sometimes had to fight. In 1774, the British passed the Intolerable Acts. 
Not all colonists wanted to leave the British Empire. The "Loyalists", or Tories, stayed loyal to Great Britain. They were not going to change their views. The "Patriots", or Whigs, wanted independence. Before the Revolutionary War, most people in America were Loyalists; but after it, most people were Patriots.
Many colonists wrote letters showing how they felt. Thomas Paine wrote "Common Sense", a famous pamphlet about independence from Britain. Other colonial leaders, such as Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson wanted independence.
The first battles of the American Revolutionary War were Lexington and Concord. One of the first major battles was the Battle of Bunker Hill in 1775. After that, the British controlled Boston. Around that time, the Second Continental Congress sent an Olive Branch Petition to King George III (which he rejected) and named George Washington head of the army. Early in 1776, Washington's army drove the British out of Boston. 
A few months later the Continental Army and British troops under William Howe fought the New York and New Jersey Campaign. During the New York battles, the British started using Hessian troops, who were from Germany. Though the colonists lost New York (the British would hold it for the rest of the war), Washington was able to hold onto most of his army. Over Christmas, 1776-77, Washington crossed the Delaware River and defeated the Hessians at Trenton and the British at Princeton. 
In 1777, the British attacked the city of Philadelphia, then the American capital. Two battles were fought over Philadelphia: Brandywine and Germantown. Again, the Americans lost a major city, but Washington was able to keep most of his army. Around this time, the Frenchman Lafayette joined the American Army. In 1778, the British left Philadelphia. Between 1778 and 1781, most battles between Washington and the British were inconclusive (they did not have any major effect militarily). 
One of the most important battles was the Battle of Saratoga in 1777. American soldiers under Horatio Gates forced a British surrender under John Burgoyne. This led to France and Spain joining the war on the side of Americans. These powerful countries fought the British around the world. From 1778 to 1780, there was fighting in the West. 
The American commerce raider John Paul Jones also won several naval battles over the British, but the French navy did most of the fighting at sea. The Americans tried to capture Canada several times.
In 1779 major fighting shifted to Georgia and South Carolina. As fighting spread northward, General Nathanael Greene led the Rebel campaign. He caused many people in the South to be Patriots instead of Loyalists, and won several battles against the British. 
In 1781, Washington and French general Jean Rochambeau led an offensive against British troops in Yorktown, Virginia. This was called the Battle of Yorktown. When their soldiers lost this battle, the British surrendered. 
The British continued to fight the French and Spanish for two years, winning in India, Gibraltar and elsewhere.
The American Revolutionary War came to an end in 1783 when a peace treaty was signed in Paris, France. In the Treaty of Paris, the British King, George III accepted the independence of the colonies and recognized the newly-created nation as the United States of America.
The treaty also gave all the land Britain said it owned which was west of the Appalachians as far as the Mississippi River to the new country. This land would eventually become part of the US, and lead to the creation of 35 new states (some of which were once part of the Confederate States of America) that now make up the contiguous United States.

</doc>
<doc id="17694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17694" title="1775">
1775


</doc>
<doc id="17695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17695" title="Continental Army">
Continental Army

The Continental Army was the fighting force of the thirteen British colonies in the American Revolutionary War. It was created in 1775 by the First Continental Congress. Most of the army was in 1783 after the conclusion of the war. The army was officially closed by a resolution of Congress in 1784. The United States Army replaced it.
George Washington was elected the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army when it was formed and served until its replacement.

</doc>
<doc id="17700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17700" title="Cream cheese">
Cream cheese

Cream cheese is a soft, mild-tasting, white cheese. Sometimes it is given extra flavor by adding additional seasonings such as puréed garlic, chopped dill, or chopped olives; as well, some cream cheese has small pieces of fruit or other sweet food blended into it. Cream cheese is different from other cheese in that it is not allowed time to mature.
Cream cheese is often spread on toasted bagels. Waffles with cream cheese and salsa is eaten in some areas of the United States.
Cream cheese is used to make cheesecake, a sweet, rich cake that is served for dessert.

</doc>
<doc id="17703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17703" title="Shrewsbury">
Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury is a town in Shropshire, a county of England. It is the county town of Shropshire.
The town is very old and dates back to around 700 AD. There is a castle and the town centre is almost completely surrounded by the River Severn.
The population of Shrewsbury is 75,000. It is the second largest town in Shropshire, after Telford and is inferior to Wolverhampton.

</doc>
<doc id="17704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17704" title="Telford">
Telford

Telford is a town in Shropshire, a county of England.
It is a new town and building began in the 1960s. There is a large shopping centre in the middle, as well as an ice rink and a large park.
The population of Telford is 150,000. It is the largest town in Shropshire, but is not the county town, which is Shrewsbury and is inferior to Wolverhampton

</doc>
<doc id="17705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17705" title="Ludlow">
Ludlow

Ludlow is a town in Shropshire, a county of England. The town is very old and dates back to around 800 AD. There is a large castle and many other historic buildings. In 2001, there were 9,548 people living in Ludlow. It is the capital of the South Shropshire area.

</doc>
<doc id="17706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17706" title="South Shropshire">
South Shropshire

South Shropshire is a area of Shropshire in England.
It is very hilly and has few people living there. The only large town is Ludlow.
The area has many castles and other ancient features, such as stone circles.

</doc>
<doc id="17714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17714" title="Battle of Yorktown (1781)">
Battle of Yorktown (1781)

The Battle of Yorktown, also called the Siege of Yorktown, fought from October 6–20, 1781. It is considered the last major land battle of the American Revolutionary War. The Continental Army, led by General George Washington, won a decisive victory against the British army, led by General Lord Charles Cornwallis. Cornwallis was forced to surrender after being surrounded by Washington's army.
The Americans were assisted by the French, led by the Comte de Rochambeau. The battle took place in Yorktown, Virginia, near the York River. After the French fleet defeated a British fleet, Cornwallis was cut off and had to surrender to the French and the Continental Army. Eventually, it led to the Treaty of Paris in 1783, two years later.
British General Lord Cornwallis had fought against the Americans in 1776 and 1777. He was convinced the Americans could not defeat a British army in the field. In 1778 he returned to England to care for his wife who died in February of 1779. After a few months he returned to America to continue fighting the Americans. While he was gone, there was a change in British strategy. Before, the British had concentrated on defeating and destroying Washington's army. Now, since the French had joined the Americans, it was no longer a rebellion but an international conflict. The French had been helping the Americans with loans and war supplies. Now they were actively fighting against the British. England decided to move some troops from North America to defend its interests elsewhere. The new strategy was on winning back the Southern colonies beginning with Georgia. The British thought that as many as 50 percent of the population in the South was loyal to Britain. They would start with Georgia and move north through The Carolinas to the Virginia Colony.
On his arrival in New York City, Cornwallis was made second-in-command to General Henry Clinton. The two generals did not trust each other. Clinton was convinced Washington would attack him in New York. He was afraid of sending troops home and having to depend more on Loyalist militia. Cornwallis was ready to go ahead with what troops he had. Clinton was suspicious Cornwallis' return from England was to get a command for himself. In fact, Cornwallis had secured a commission to replace Clinton if Clinton repeated his threats to resign again.
Clinton sent Cornwallis south to recapture Charleston, South Carolina following the new plan. But almost immediately, Cornwallis began acting independently of Clinton. This is while Clinton stayed safe in New York City. Cornwallis wasn't going to play it safe and advance by careful steps as he had been instructed to do. When he saw a chance to attack the new patriot army under Major General Horatio Gates, he did so without orders nearly wiping out the Americans. 
Cornwallis moved carelessly. He left American units, such as the one lead by Francis Marion (called the "Swamp Fox"), in his rear. The American general Nathanael Greene noticed this right away. He broke up his command into smaller units in order to plague Cornwallis. Finally the two armies met at the Battle of Guilford Court House, which neither army won. During this time Cornwallis was not sending messages to Clinton telling him where he was. After Guilford Court House, Cornwallis moved to the coast of North Carolina to rest his men. Then, again without orders, he decided to march north to Virginia. Frustrated by this, Clinton sent Cornwallis a number of contradictory messages. Most of them were worded as suggestions rather than orders. But he did order Cornwallis to find a defensible position. This was so he could be evacuated by the Royal Navy, possibly to Philadelphia. Cornwallis decided on the community of Yorktown and his men started building defenses there in August of 1781 to wait for the Navy.
In New York, Washington learned that the French Admiral François Joseph Paul de Grasse was sailing north from the West Indies. Rochambeau convinced Washington they could attack and defeat Cornwallis. The two commanders began marching south to meet de Grasse's 27 ships and 3,200 troops. Clinton learned of this and sent a British naval fleet to the Chesapeake Bay to cut them off. But the French and Americans arrived first. In the Battle of the Chesapeake the French navy forced the British ships back to New York City. Clinton warned Cornwallis in early September he would soon be facing American and French troops but promised him reinforcements by sea. Clinton had not yet learned of the French naval victory and did not know he could not rescue Cornwallis by sea. By the end of September, Washington and Rochambeau had surrounded Yorktown. Cornwallis received another message in late September from Clinton telling him help was on the way. Cornwallis was misled again and thought he only had to hold out for a few days.
Just after the clash between the French and British fleets, a smaller French squadron carrying the French army's siege artillery slipped into the Chesapeake. Now the French and Americans had bigger guns than Cornwallis had behind his earthen fortifications.
Marching out of Williamsburg, Virginia the Americans and French arrived on September 28, 1781 at Yorktown. They surrounded the earthworks in a Semicircle with the York River completing the circle. Cornwallis made the first move, abandoning his outer works made up of four redoubts. Washington and Rochambeau thought this was a mistake. They sent troops to occupy the outer earthworks. The Americans and French began setting up their siege operations on September 30, first on the east side. By October 9, they were close enough to begin the bombardment. The Americans and French stormed two of the redoubts on October 14, forcing the British back even further. By that time it became obvious the British could not hold out much longer. On October 16, the British attacked two of the redoubts they had abandoned and spiked the guns. At the same time Cornwallis attempted to slip past the guards to Gloucester (now Gloucester Point, Virginia) across the river but was turned back by a storm. Finally, with no sign of relief as promised by Clinton, Cornwallis' army of 6,000 soldiers surrendered.
The casualties were about 500 British, 200 French and 80 Americans. Captured were 240 artillery pieces, a large supply of small arms and ammunition, plus equipment. General Cornwallis did not attend the surrender. Claiming to be sick, he sent General Charles O'Hara to surrender for him. O'Hara first tried to surrender to Comte de Rochambeau. Rochambeau directed him to surrender to General Washington. In turn, Washington directed him to surrender to General Benjamin Lincoln who accepted O'Hara's sword. As the British stacked their guns marching out of the fortress, their band played "The World Turned Upside Down". When Lord North, the British Prime Minister, received news of the surrender he cried out "Oh God, it is all over!"
While the Battle of Yorktown resulted in Cornwallis' surrender, the Treaty of Paris (1783) ending the war was still two years away. The battles Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781 were two major turning points in the Revolutionary war. While both involved American victories over the British, they had two very different results. The British defeat at Saratoga prolonged the war while the battle at Yorktown is seen as the beginning of the end. But Saratoga convinced the French to join the Americans against the British. Yorktown was a joint victory by the French and the Americans over the British.
 

</doc>
<doc id="17715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17715" title="Battle of Saratoga">
Battle of Saratoga

The Battle of Saratoga is considered the turning point of the American Revolution. The battle was fought in late 1777. I. It was actually two engagements: the Battle of Freeman's Farm (September 19) and the Battle of Bemis Heights (October 7). The Americans were led by General Horatio Gates. The British were led by General John Burgoyne. On October 17 Burgoyne surrendered his army of nearly 6,000 British soldiers. The American victory helped convince France to come to the aid the Continental Army. It also helped them recognize the United States. 
In early 1777, General William Howe asked London to approve his plan to attack Philadelphia. This would destroy the rebel American government. In Canada, General John Burgoyne submitted a plan to move down through New York and meet General Howe at Albany. This would divide the colonies. London approved both plans. Burgoyne began moving down the Hudson River valley from Canada. He split his force into two columns. One, under Colonel Barry St. Leger moved east from Lake Ontario down the Mohawk Valley. They attacked the Americans at Fort Stanwix. The Americans sent two parties to relieve the fort. The second, under the command of Benedict Arnold, drove the British away from the fort. St. Leger's column retreated back to Lake Ontario. Burgoyne continued south with his own column of about 7,000 British and Hessian soldiers. He was joined by about 500 native Americans, allied to the British. 
Burgoyne made a proclamation to his Indians to go out and strike at the enemy. He added that women and children, or any who did not oppose them should not be killed. But men, women and children were killed. One famous incident upset all the colonists. A young woman named Jane McCrea was engaged to marry one of Burgoyne's young tory officers. Indians bringing her to Burgoyne fought over her, killed and scalped her. Burgoyne wouldn't punish the Indian who killed her. This proved he could not even protect friendly colonists. Newspapers in the colonies spread the story. As a result, a great many Americans who had been neutral took up arms against the British. The story even reached England. In the House of Commons Edmund Burke spoke out against the British policy of using Native American allies.
Howe had captured Philadelphia. But it took so long he did not send any forces north to support Burgoyne. On September 19 Burgoyne attacked the Americans who were entrenched on Bemis Heights near Saratoga. He again fought Americans at Freeman's Farm. This time it was American riflemen under the command of Daniel Morgan. American Marksman killed a large number of British and Hessian officers. This was intended to cause confusion among the British forces. Burgoyne lost about 600 casualties. He claimed victory although he was still held in place by the Americans.
Burgoyne tried to attack the Americans again on October 7. But the Americans held out against him. A counterattack led by Benedict Arnold pushed the British back further until they finally retreated back to Saratoga. This battle cost Burgoyne another 600 casualties. The American losses were less than 150. Burgoyne's army was now surrounded by a much larger and growing American army. On October 13, 1777 Burgoyne asked for a Ceasefire. Horatio Gates, the American commander asked for Burgoyne's surrender. But Burgoyne stalled and did not give an answer. The terms given by Gates were harsh. Finally Gates offered better terms. On October 17, Burgoyne surrendered. 
Burgoyne surrendered his whole army of 5,752. He gave up 42 cannons, 7,000 muskets and all his supplies. Officers were separated from their men and placed on parole. Unlike their men they were allowed to keep their pistols. Gates invited Burgoyne to dine with him. The two men were friendly. Each toasted the other's leader. The British and Hessian soldiers were marched to Boston. Per the agreement they were to return to England on their promise not to fight again. While some did return to England, Congress changed the terms. Many were sent to prisons in the colonies to wait out the war.

</doc>
<doc id="17716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17716" title="1189">
1189


</doc>
<doc id="17717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17717" title="Horatio Gates">
Horatio Gates

Horatio Gates (1726 - 1806) was an American general in the American Revolutionary War. General Gates fought for the Continental Army and is credited with the decisive American victory at the Battle of Saratoga in 1777. But before that, he fought as a British Major in the British army before he moved to the new land.
However, Gates also lost to British General Charles Cornwallis at the Battle of Camden in 1780.
Gates also had a child named Robert.

</doc>
<doc id="17718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718" title="1276">
1276


</doc>
<doc id="17719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17719" title="1274">
1274


</doc>
<doc id="17720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17720" title="1198">
1198


</doc>
<doc id="17721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17721" title="1433">
1433


</doc>
<doc id="17722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17722" title="1435">
1435


</doc>
<doc id="17723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17723" title="Heinrich-Heine-University">
Heinrich-Heine-University

The Heinrich-Heine-University is the university of Düsseldorf, Germany, named after the most famous son of Düsseldorf, the poet Heinrich Heine.
In the era of Napoleon Bonaparte there was the first university in Düsseldorf, which ended after Napoleon surrendered.
So in the further 19th century there was only a Medical Academy and the famous Arts School of Düsseldorf and a Teacher Academy (Special University only for studying to became a teacher) until the 1970s, but no regular university, in Düsseldorf. In the 1960s the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia decided to have a regular university in the state's capital. The university started about 1970.
It got its name only in the 1980s, because the medicine faculty wanted to have a physician's name, because of the tradition as Medical Academy.
Currently the Heinrich-Heine-University is a university with about 20,000 students, which is middle-class in Germany.
It has a lot of subjects in sciences, arts, economics, and so on. The deep points are on biological-medicinal research in sciences and some deep points in arts, economics, political sciences, and philosophy.
Like most German universities it has many subjects:

</doc>
<doc id="17724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17724" title="1239">
1239

1239 is a year in the 13th century

</doc>
<doc id="17726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17726" title="Siberian tiger">
Siberian tiger

The Siberian tiger ("Panthera tigris altaica"), also known as the "Amur Tiger", is the largest felid in the world. They live in eastern Russia's birch forests, and there are some in China and North Korea. It is estimated that there are around 400 to 500 Siberian tigers left in the wild.
Siberian tigers are the largest of all tigers, as well as the largest of all the big cats. They can grow up to the length of 6–9 ft (1.8–2.7 meters), but some can be as long as 11 ft (3.3 meters). They usually weigh around 300–600 pounds, but can weigh as much as 700 pounds or more. To keep themselves from becoming cold in the winters, Siberian tigers have thicker fur coats than tigers which live in southern Asia. They also have a thick layer of fat which helps keep them warm. Like all other tigers, Siberian tigers have orange fur with black stripes. Siberian tigers have extra fur around their necks and paws which helps them keep warm. Siberian tigers have less orange in their coats, and have fewer stripes.
Siberian tigers are located in northeast China, the Russian Far East and parts of North Korea. This region is called the "Amur Region", which is named after the Amur river. This region is covered with mountainous areas and coniferous forests. In the summer, the temperature is between mild and hot. In the winter, it may be very cold, especially at higher altitudes.
Like other tigers, the Siberian tiger likes to live on its own. Each Siberian tiger has its own large amount of territory. Male tigers' territories will usually cross those of several females' territories, but will usually not cross the territories of other males. In their territories, Siberian tigers usually have a lair in a cave or another area. 
Since Siberian tigers live in such cold regions, an adult needs to eat at least of food every day to survive, but adults can eat as much as 50 kilograms of meat. Siberian tigers feed mainly on wild boar, elk and deer, but they also eat lynx and even bears. If the tiger cannot find larger prey it instead feeds on fish, rodents and rabbits. During normal conditions, around 50 percent of the tiger's diet will be of wild boar.
While hunting, a Siberian tiger can run faster than 50 miles per hour, but running at this speed takes a lot of energy, so the Siberian tiger will only run short distances. The Siberian tiger has good night vision and likes to hunt during the night, when it can more easily surprise its prey. It also has excellent hearing and sense of smell which it uses to find and attack prey.
Siberian tigers live alone and only come together in mating season. The mating season usually begins in December, and lasts through January. Females are pregnant for around three to three and a half months before giving birth to their cubs in early spring. Females usually give birth to around 3–4 cubs at a time. When born, the Siberian tiger cub is blind and toothless and is no larger than a normal house cat. It stays blind for around two weeks. The mother starts teaching the cubs how to hunt when the cubs are around 1 year old. The cubs then stay with their mother until they are 3–5 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="17728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17728" title="1455">
1455


</doc>
<doc id="17730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17730" title="Cassette">
Cassette

Cassette may mean:
Some of kinds of cassettes are:

</doc>
<doc id="17733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17733" title="Audio cassette">
Audio cassette

An audio cassette is a kind of cassette which can store music and sounds. It is used with a "cassette player" or "cassette recorder". Cassettes store the sound on a magnetic tape that is wound around the two reels in the cassette.
The standard audio cassette was invented in 1962 by the Philips company. They named it the "Compact Cassette". The first cassettes and cassette recorders were not very good. The quality got better, and during the 1970s the cassette became a popular way to listen to music. During the 1980s, they were even more popular. The Sony Walkman helped this.
With increasing popularity for compact discs, cassettes were used less often. In 2011, the Oxford English Dictionary even removed the word "cassette tape" from a small version of its book.

</doc>
<doc id="17744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17744" title="1694">
1694


</doc>
<doc id="17745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17745" title="1290">
1290


</doc>
<doc id="17746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17746" title="Fight Club">
Fight Club

Fight Club is a movie that came out in 1999, starring Edward Norton, Brad Pitt, and Helena Bonham Carter. The film was directed by David Fincher. It is based on a novel of the same name by Chuck Palahniuk.
The story is about an unnamed character's path during a dark form of personal enlightenment (or eternal happinness) which is achieved primarily through fighting. The story is dark and, in both the book and the movie, contains strong depictions of violence. There are a large number of metaphors which are revealed in its complex and twisted storyline. Some would think that the morals and life guidelines taught in the story would be an extreme form of Buddhism, such as the idea of detachment from material possessions (things). The central character has dissociative identity disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="17747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17747" title="Top of the Pops">
Top of the Pops

Top of the Pops is a British music show, which featured popular artists performing their songs. It started in 1964 and ended in 2006 because not enough people were watching it any more. It was hosted by many presenters over the years, most notably by Sir Jimmy Savile, who opened the very first show on New Year's Day 1964 on BBC1.
TOTP2 (Top of the Pops 2) is a variant of the show. however, it featured a collection of archive performances by artists spanning the past four decades. The show was regularly hosted by Steve Wright, up until 2009, when Mark Radcliffe replaced him. A new episode of the programme is shown on 25 December each year.

</doc>
<doc id="17751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17751" title="Trinidad and Tobago">
Trinidad and Tobago

The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is a nation in the south Caribbean Sea. It is 11 km (7 miles) away from Venezuela. The country has two bigger islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and many smaller islands. The capital is Port-of-Spain. The country has about 1,262,366 people in it.
Trinidad and Tobago received independence from the United Kingdom on August 31, 1962. Before that, it was ruled by the U.K. Right now, the head of state (person who is in charge of the country) is President Anthony Carmona. The head of government (person who is in charge of the government) is Prime Minister Keith Rowley.
Trinidad and Tobago is very diverse. It has people of many different races and religions. There are people who are children of Africans, Europeans, Arabs, Indians, and Chinese who moved to the islands a long time ago. The biggest religions in the country are Christianity and Hinduism. There are also Islam and African religions in the country.
The country has some natural gas beneath the ground and underwater in the ocean. Natural gas is a liquid that makes machines work and heats houses. Also, many people called tourists visit the islands. They take pictures and learn about the islands.
The people in the country are famous for their music. They also play football and cricket.
The population of Trinidad and Tobago is 1.17 million as of (2002). The ethnic groups of the population are: 

</doc>
<doc id="17752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17752" title="Category:Astronauts">
Category:Astronauts

See: astronaut

</doc>
<doc id="17756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17756" title="Mount St. Helens">
Mount St. Helens

Mount St. Helens is a volcano in the U.S. state of Washington. It is 96 miles (154 km) south of Seattle and 53 miles (85 km) northeast of Portland, Oregon. The volcano is in Cascade Range of mountains. It is part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc in the Pacific Ring of Fire that includes over 160 active volcanos. Mount St. Helens was first called "Louwala-Clough", which means "smoking" or "fire mountain" in the language of the Native American Klickitat people.
This volcano is well known for its explosions and flows of lava. Its most famous volcanic eruption was on May 18, 1980. In 1982, U.S. President Ronald Reagan and the United States Congress made the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument, a 110,000 acre (445 km²) area around the volcano that is also a part of the Gifford Pinchot National Forest.
The 1980 eruption was the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States. 57 people were killed; 250 homes, 47 bridges, 15 miles of railways, and 185 miles of highway were destroyed. A massive debris avalanche was triggered by an earthquake measuring 5.1 on the Richter scale. This caused the eruption, which reduced the height of the mountain's summit from to and replacing it with a wide horseshoe-shaped crater. The earthquake was caused by a sudden surge of magma from the Earth's mantle. The debris avalanche was up to 0.7 cubic miles (3.1 cubic kilometers) in volume. 
Before the eruption in 1980, Mount St. Helens was the fifth-highest peak in Washington State. The peak rose more than 5,000 feet (1,525 m) above its base, where it rises from the ridges that are around it. It stood out from the surrounding hills because of the symmetrical cone shape and the snow that covered the top. Because of its cone-shape, it was called the "Mount Fuji of America", after the famous Mount Fuji which is a symbol of Japan.
In the months before the large eruption that took place on May 18, 1980, there were many signs of volcanic activity. On March 20, 1980, Mount St. Helens was the center of a magnitude 4.2 earthquake. Steam venting from the volcano started on March 27. By the end of April, the north side of the volcano started to grow larger.
On May 18, a second earthquake of magnitude 5.1 made a huge part of the north face of the volcano collapse. It was the largest known debris avalanche in recorded history. At 8:32 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time, the magma inside of St. Helens exploded. On the Volcanic Explosivity Index scale, the eruption was rated a five, which is the same rating of the famous Vesuvius eruption in 79 AD.
For more than nine hours, ash erupted from the volcano, rising into the air for 12 to 16 miles (20 to 27 km) above sea level in the air. This cloud rising from a volcano is called a "plume". The pyroclastic flow of heated rocks and gas that poured out of the Volcano spread over an area of over 230 square miles (600 km²), destroying plants and buildings. The ash spread east at about 60 miles per hour (95 km/h), with some ash reaching Idaho by about 12:00 pm, almost 3.5 hours after the eruption. By about 5:30 pm the plume of ash became smaller. Through the night and for several days after, there were smaller eruptions.
As well as the effect of the fast-moving hot gasses and stones from the explosion, the collapse of the northern side of Mount St. Helens caused "lahars", or volcanic mudflows. These were mixtures of volcanic ash with melted ice and snow. The lahars went many miles down the Toutle and Cowlitz rivers, destroying bridges and killing many trees. A total of 3.9 million cubic yards (3.0 million m³) of material was carried 17 miles (27 km) south into the Columbia River by the lahars.
The St. Helens May 18 eruption released 24 megatons of thermal energy. It released more than 0.67 cubic miles (2.8 cubic km) of ash and other material. The collapse of the north side of the volcano shortened St. Helens' height by about 1,300 feet (400 m) and left a volcanic crater one to two miles (1.6 to 3.2 km) wide and half of a mile (800 m) deep. The eruption 
killed 57 people, nearly 7,000 game animals (deer, elk, and bear), and about 12 million fish from a fish farm. It destroyed or damaged over 200 homes, 185 miles (300 km) of highway and of railways.
Between 1980 and 1986, more volcanic activity continued at Mount Saint Helens, with a new lava dome made in the crater. Several small explosions and eruptions took place, making more lava domes. From December 7, 1989 to January 6, 1990, and from November 5, 1990 to February 14, 1991, the volcano erupted with sometimes huge clouds of ash.
The ash reached a number of states, as far east as Montana and as south as Colorado.
Magma bubbles came to the top of the volcano on about October 11, 2004, and a new lava dome was made on the first dome's south side. This new dome grew throughout 2005 and into 2006. Several new features were seen, such as the "whaleback," which is solid magma being pushed to the top of the volcano by magma under it. These features do not last long and break down soon after they are formed. On July 2, 2005, the tip of the whaleback broke off, and a rockfall sent ash several hundred meters into the air.
Mount St. Helens showed important new activity on March 8, 2005, when a 36,000-foot (11,000 m) plume of steam and ash came from the volcano. The plume was seen from as far away as Seattle, a city that is 96 miles away. This fairly small eruption took place because of a new lava dome being formed and a 2.5 magnitude earthquake.
Another feature that grew from the dome is a "fin" or "slab." About half the size of a football field, the large volcanic rock was being moved up as fast as 6 feet (2 m) per day. In mid-June 2006, the slab had rockfalls very often, but was still being pushed up from inside the volcano.
On October 22, 2006, at 3:13 p.m. PST, a magnitude 3.5 earthquake broke the lava dome. The resulting collapse and avalanche sent an ash plume 2,000 feet (610 m) over the crater, although it quickly disappeared.
On December 19, 2006, a large white plume of steam was seen, and some journalists from the media thought there had been a small eruption. However, the Cascades Volcano Observatory of the United States Geological Survey says that there was no large ash plume, so it could not have been an eruption. The volcano has been erupting on occasion since October 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="17758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17758" title="1795">
1795


</doc>
<doc id="17760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17760" title="Oder-Neisse line">
Oder-Neisse line

The Oder-Neisse line (named after the Oder and Neisse rivers) is the border between Germany and Poland since the end of the Second World War. As a result of the defeat Germany lost another huge part of its territory to Poland after it already had to cede the former Prussian provinces of Posen and Westpreußen as well as parts of upper Silesia to the newly founded Polish state after the First World War in 1919.
The population of the eastern German provinces as well as the German minority population in what was Poland before the Second World War (12 million) either fled before the Russian army to central and western Germany or were later driven out of their homeland by force of the Polish militia who entered immediately after the Russian army.
As Poland annexed the German provinces and deported the native population, Polish people occupied those provinces and took over land and property of the expatriated Germans. About 1.5 million of the new inhabitants had been driven out of their own homeland in eastern Poland/Western Ukraine, Belarus, as the U.S.S.R. was not willing to give back that part of 1922-1939 Poland which it had annexed in 1939.

</doc>
<doc id="17768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17768" title="Jimmy Wales">
Jimmy Wales

Jimmy Donal "Jimbo" Wales (; born August 7, 1966) is an American Internet entrepreneur, best known as a co-founder of Wikipedia and Wikia. Wales was born in Huntsville, Alabama, United States. There, he went to Randolph School. He then earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in finance. In 1996, he and two partners founded Bomis. Bomis was an Internet portal with entertainment and adult content. The company gave money for Nupedia (2000–2003) and, after that, Wikipedia.
On January 15, 2001, with Larry Sanger and others, Wales launched Wikipedia. Wikipedia was and still is a free, open content encyclopedia. It grew and became popular very quickly. As Wikipedia became known to the public, he became the project’s promoter and spokesperson. He is often called a co-founder of Wikipedia, though he has argued the "co-" part. He said he was the only founder. Wales is on the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation. In 2004, he co-founded Wikia, a wiki-hosting service which tries to make money. In 2015, Wales started the Jimmy Wales Foundation for freedom of expression, to try to help bloggers or internet activists who are in prison. 
Wales has been married three times. He also has two children. When he was 20, Wales married Pam. Pam was a worker at a store in Alabama. He met his second wife, Christine Rohan, through a friend in Chicago. They had a daughter before their marriage ended. Wales moved to San Diego in 1998. In 2002, he moved again to Florida. In 2007, he still lives there. As of 2012 he lives in London, England. In 2012, Wales married Kate Garvey, a government worker for Tony Blair. They have a child together. 
Wales says that he follows the ideas of Objectivism. He also says that he is a libertarian to some extent, meaning that he thinks people should be allowed to do whatever they want so long as they do not harm others.

</doc>
<doc id="17772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17772" title="Exeter">
Exeter

Exeter is a city in South West England on the River Exe, from which it takes its name. It is the county town of Devon. Its population is just over 100,000. In the city are a ruined castle, much of the old Roman city wall, and Exeter Cathedral.
Exeter was built by the Romans, who called it "Isca Dumnoniorum" (Isca of the Dumnonii, the local British tribe). After the Romans left and the Anglo-Saxons moved into the area in the seventh century, the name changed to Exeter. In the 1060s, Exeter was a centre of resistance to the Norman conquest. In 1050, the Bishop of Crediton moved to Exeter; from then until 1876 the bishops were the heads of the church in the whole of Devon and Cornwall. Now, only Devon is within the Exeter diocese.
Today it is home to the Meteorological Office, which forecasts the country's weather.

</doc>
<doc id="17795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17795" title="United States Congress">
United States Congress

The United States Congress is the legislative, or law making, branch of the United States government. It meets in the United States Capitol.
It has two houses (parts): The United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. This two house system is known as a bicameral ("bi" is the Latin word for "two", and "camera" is Latin for "chamber" or "room") legislature. There are 435 Representatives in Congress, split between the states based on how many people live in the state. There are 100 Senators in Congress, with two coming from each state.
The primary duty of Congress is to write, debate, and pass bills (laws they want). For Congress to pass a bill, both houses must pass exactly the same bill. For each house to pass a bill, more than half of its members must vote in favor of passing the bill. After both houses pass the same bill, this bill is then sent to the President. If the President agrees the bill should be a law he or she signs the bill within 10 days. If the president does not agree, then he or she can veto the bill and send it back to Congress. If the bill is neither signed nor vetoed by the president within 10 days, the bill becomes law anyway if Congress does not adjourn (end its session) within that time. If Congress adjourns within that time, the bill does not become a law. Congress may override a president's veto of a bill by having more than two thirds of its members passing the bill. In that case, the bill becomes law even though the president vetoed it. 
Article 1 of the United States Constitution lists what subjects Congress can pass laws on. 
Members of Congress cannot be arrested, except for certain crimes, during a session of Congress or going to or returning from a session. 
Each house of Congress can decide to expel (throw out) one of its members if more than two thirds of them vote to expel him or her. 
The political party with the most members in a house of Congress usually decides which bills are voted on in their house.

</doc>
<doc id="17800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17800" title="Charles Cornwallis">
Charles Cornwallis

Lord Charles Cornwallis (31 December 1738 5 October 1805) was a British general and colonial governor. He is best known for leading the British forces in the American Revolution.
His parents were Elizabeth, and 1st Charles Cornwallis
Cornwallis moved to the 13 colonies in North America in 1776 to try to control the rebelling colonies. He fought at the Battle of Princeton. George Washington led the Americans in that battle. Later, Cornwallis led British forces through North Carolina and South Carolina, where he fought against American forces under Nathanael Greene. In October 1781, Cornwallis's forces surrendered to George Washington at the Battle of Yorktown, ending the American Revolution.
In 1786 Cornwallis was appointed Governor-General of the British colony of India.
From 1798 to 1801 Cornwallis was Lord Lieutenant and Commander in Chief of Ireland.
He died in 1805

</doc>
<doc id="17804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17804" title="1738">
1738


</doc>
<doc id="17805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17805" title="Battle of Princeton">
Battle of Princeton

The Battle of Princeton was a battle during the American Revolution. It was fought in January of 1777 near Princeton, New Jersey. The battle came a week after the Battle of Trenton, where General George Washington had led the Continental Army to a surprise victory over the British.
The Continental Army, led by Washington, advanced to Princeton after their victory at Trenton. The army defeated a small British force. A larger British force, led by Charles Cornwallis, was alerted and gave chase. However, the Continental Army burned the bridges behind them and sniped at the British army before escaping.
The battle resulted in about 200 casualties (deaths) for the British along with another 300 injured or captured, while the Americans suffered minimal losses. The battle boosted American morale.

</doc>
<doc id="17806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17806" title="Category:Cities in Northern Ireland">
Category:Cities in Northern Ireland


</doc>
<doc id="17807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17807" title="Category:Cities in the Czech Republic">
Category:Cities in the Czech Republic


</doc>
<doc id="17808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17808" title="Fork">
Fork

A fork is a tool for eating. It has points called "tines". Most forks have three or four tines. Some cooking-forks have two tines. The tines help you pick up your food. Forks are useful only for eating solid food. For example, a fork would be useless for eating soup because all the soup would fall through the tines and into your lap. Most forks are made of metal. Some are made of plastic or wood.
The word "fork" is also used to describe a two choices of course. A fork in the road would be a split in the road leading in two (or more) directions. A forked tongue would have two parts or tips.
Forks are very common in Western culture. Many countries do not use forks, but instead have their own ways to eat food, such as chopsticks.

</doc>
<doc id="17809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17809" title="Backgammon">
Backgammon

Backgammon is a game played by two players. Each player moves pieces around a board. Players roll two dice to find out how far their pieces can move in one turn. The winner of one game is the first to get all pieces all the way around, and off, the board.
The game is laid-out asymmetrically. White's direction of travel is counter-clockwise, whereas black's direction of travel is clockwise. (There is no advantage whatsoever to either side due to this asymmetry.)
White moves from white's far right to white's home area on white's close right, in the shape of a right-hand "C" from white's point of view. Black moves along the same "C", beginning from black's far left and ending at black's home area on black's close left. (The "C" is the same for both sides - the "C" points to the right for white and points to the left for black.)
As shown in the image, some pieces (for each side) begin already in the home quadrant, and some pieces must make their way all the way around. Pieces can be sent backwards to their starting position during play.
The roll of two dice introduces a random component in the game, but Backgammon is basically a game of strategy. 
Usual playing time is around 15– 30 minutes, for a single game (which could be thought of as something like one particular long "hand" of a card game). An overall championship or round of backgammon involves a number of ongoing single games, with the involvement of points, a "doubling cube," and other complications.
The game has a long history. Games that resemble it have been played for thousands of years. Archaeologists doing excavations at a place called "Burnt City" in modern-day Iran have found parts of a game that resembled backgammon. They have found 60 pieces to play with, and two dice. They could show that the game utensils date from around 3000 BC. These pieces around 100–200 years older than another set, found in Ur, in Mesopotamia. 

</doc>
<doc id="17810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17810" title="Cell wall">
Cell wall

A cell wall is the wall of a cell in plants, bacteria, fungi, algae, and some archaea. Animal cells do not have cell walls, nor do protozoa. Cell walls protect the cells from damage. It is also there to make the cell strong, to keep its shape, and to control the growing of the cell and plant.
The cell wall is the tough, usually flexible but sometimes fairly rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. It is outside the cell membrane and gives these cells support and protection, as well as acting as a filter. The cell wall also acts as a pressure vessel, preventing over-expansion when water enters the cell by osmosis. 
The material in the cell wall varies. In plants and algae, the cell wall is made of long molecules of cellulose, pectin, and hemicellulose. The cell wall has channels which let some proteins in and keeps others out. Water and small molecules can go through the cell wall and the cell membrane.
The cell wall has mechanical strength, and supports cell shape. This mechanical strength is its main function:
Although the plant cell wall is strong, it is not rigid or stiff. The flexibility of the cell walls is seen when plants wilt, so that the stems and leaves begin to droop.
Some plants add stiffening material to some of their cell walls. A "secondary" cell wall is an additional layer of cellulose which increases wall rigidity. More layers may be added containing lignin in xylem cell walls, or containing suberin in cork cell walls. These compounds are rigid and waterproof. They make the secondary wall stiff. Both wood and bark cells of trees have secondary walls. Other parts of plants such as the leaf stalk may get reinforcement to resist the strain of physical forces.
Small molecules, including small proteins, can easily get through the primary plant cell wall. Water and carbon dioxide are distributed throughout the plant. The pH is an important factor in the transport of molecules through cell walls.
Around the outside of the cell membrane is the bacterial cell wall. Bacterial cell walls are made of peptidoglycan, which is made from polysaccharide chains cross-linked by unusual peptides containing D-amino acids. Bacterial cell walls are different from the cell walls of plants and fungi which are made of cellulose and chitin, respectively.
The cell wall of bacteria is also distinct from that of Archaea, which do not contain peptidoglycan. The cell wall is essential to the survival of many bacteria. The antibiotic penicillin is able to kill bacteria by preventing the cross-linking of peptidoglycan and this causes the cell wall to weaken and lyse. The lysozyme enzyme can also damage bacterial cell walls.
The middle lamella gives the cell shape, support, and strength. It is made of calcium and magnesium. Even though it is called "middle" lanella, it is the outer part of the cell. The middle lamella is the first wall of the cell to give protection.
Animal cells do not have cell walls. They have microfilaments (the thinnest filaments of the cytoskeleton).

</doc>
<doc id="17811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17811" title="Friction">
Friction

Friction is a force that acts to stop the movement of two touching things. The energy lost to friction is turned into sound and heat. Two kinds of friction are static and kinetic. Static friction is when the friction is strong enough to stop movement between two objects. Kinetic friction is when the frictional force is not strong enough to stop all motion.
Some facts about friction are:

</doc>
<doc id="17813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17813" title="Lima">
Lima

Lima is the capital city (where the government works), and is considered the most important and largest city of Peru. 75% of the Peruvian economy is handled in Lima. 
Lima is the industrial and financial center of Peru, and one of the most important financial centers in Latin America.
It is an important city of South America and the entrance to Peru. Lima is city in constant urban growth. It has a large population. Over 8 million people live in the metropolitan area, which includes Callao Seaport. Lima is the fifth largest city in Latin America, behind Mexico City, São Paulo, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro. 
The city was founded by the Spanish conquistador (conqueror) Francisco Pizarro on January 18, 1535. He called it 'La Ciudad de los Reyes' (the City of the Kings). It became the capital and most important city in the Spanish Viceroyalty of Peru. And after the Peruvian War of Independence, it became the capital of the Republic of Peru.
In the 1940s, Lima started a period of rapid growth, with the migration from the Andean regions of Peru, as rural people. They wanted to find better opportunities for work and education. The population, estimated at 0.6 million in 1940, reached 1.9M by 1960 and 4.8M by 1980. 
Lima has developed an important tourism industry, characterized by its historic center, archeological sites, nightlife, museums, art galleries, festivals, popular traditions, and gastronomy. Lima is considered Americas's gastronomical capital. 
Lima is made up of mainly Spanish speaking inhabitants with over 90% of the population speaking the language and it is made up of 43 districts, which are:
1 - Cercado de Lima
3 - Ate
4 - Barranco
5 - Brena
7 - Comas
9 - Chorrillos
10 - El Agustino
11 - Jesus Maria
12 - La Molina
13 - La Victoria
14 - Lince
17 - Magdalena del Mar
18 - Miraflores
21 - Pueblo Libre
22 - Puente Piedra
25 - Rimac
27 - San Isidro
28 - Independence
29 - San Juan de Miraflores
30 - San Luis
31 - San Martin de Porres
32 - San Miguel
33 - Santiago de Surco
34 - Surquillo
35 - Villa María del Triunfo
36 - San Juan de Lurigancho
38 - Santa Rosa
39 - Los Olivos
41 - San Borja
42 - Villa El Savador
43 - Santa Anita

</doc>
<doc id="17816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17816" title="Janitor">
Janitor

A janitor (or cleaner) is someone who takes away garbage and cleans surfaces. Janitors often repair things,and maintain their equipment in good working order, as well as dusting, washing, waxing and polishing.
Heavy duty janitors often move furniture, large containers of recycled materials and waste, and other objects, and operate large buffers and other weighty equipment. "Light" duty janitors clean chalk boards, windows, shelves, desks, light fixtures, and ledges. Some duties, like using a vacuum cleaner, can be done by either "light" or "heavy" duty janitors. Janitors can clean offices, staircases, kitchens, washrooms, hallways, sidewalks, elevators, escalators, and other areas. Janitors can specialize by washing windows, or by cleaning carpets, hospitals, food processing plants, or construction sites. Janitors who discover seriously damaged surfaces and equipment on their sites can notify specialists, like plumbers and carpenters, about the need for professional repairs.
Cleaners are also alert for security problems, like vandalism, signs of theft (forced windows or doors, missing computers or stock), blocked fire escape routes, malfunctioning lights or fire alarms, or trespassers. When these occur, the cleaners promptly notify their sites' Security Officers and Site Supervisors. Janitors know how to keep themselves and their sites safe, by immediately removing hazards like broken class, spilled fluids, and waste from kitchens and washrooms, and by checking hand rails, floor mats, stairs, automated doors, escalators, elevators, intercoms, and plumbing.

</doc>
<doc id="17836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17836" title="Bovinae">
Bovinae

Bovinae is a subfamily of the even-toed ungulate family Bovidae. About 26 species of bovines belong to this subfamily.
Bovines are herbivores, and they mostly eat grass.
The four genera "Tetracerus", "Boselaphus", "Tragelaphus" and "Taurotragus" are sometimes put into their own subfamily "Tragelaphinae", and sometimes with the bovines.

</doc>
<doc id="17840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17840" title="Mongolia">
Mongolia

Mongolia is a country between China and Russia, in Asia.
Mongolia is a landlocked country in East Asia and Central Asia. It borders Russia to the north and the People's Republic of China to the south, east and west. Mongolia's political system is a parliamentary republic.
Until recently, most of the people there were Buddhists. Many of them are nomads (people who always move from place to place and do not stay in one home), but this is changing. The largest city, and capital city is Ulaanbaatar. It is where about 38% of the population live. This has been spelled "Ulan Bator/ Ulaan Battor" and other ways in the past. The north and east parts of the country have many mountains. Part of the south part is the Gobi Desert. There are 2,791,272 people living in Mongolia. The country is the 18th biggest country in the world, with an area of . The crime rate is very low. Their language is Mongolian, and some people know English, Chinese, and Russian. Korean is being spoken more because more Mongolians are working in Korea.
Mongolia is mainly rural with the lowest population density of all independent countries in the world.
The area which is Mongolia has been ruled by various nomadic empires. This was until the great 'Mongol Empire' was founded by Genghis Khan in 1206. After the Yuan Dynasty collapsed, the Mongols became nomads again. After the 16th century, Mongolia were influenced by Tibetan Buddhism. By the end of the 17th century, most of Mongolia was part of an area ruled by the Qing Dynasty. When the Qing Dynasty collapsed in 1911, Mongolia declared independence. But they had to fight against the Chinese. They were helped by the Soviet Union. In 1921, the world accepted its independence. Shortly after the death of Bogd Khaan, the last monarch of Mongolia the monarchy was replaced by a communist government in 1924, and the country was renamed the Mongolian People's Republic. Up until the fall of the Soviet Union, Mongolia was a satellite state for the Soviets. The Mongolian Red Cross Society was set up in 1939. It has its headquarters in Ulaanbaator.
Following the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991, Russia's interest in Mongolia has declined. China and South Korea are currently Mongolia's main trade and political partners.
Mongolia is a parliamentary republic. People vote for their government. The President of Mongolia is elected to a four-year term, and cannot be elected President more than twice. The current President is Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj. He is a two-time former prime minister and he was first elected as President on May 24, 2009. Elbegdorj was re-elected on 26 June 2013 for his second term as President.
 Mongolia has a steppe climate. It has very cold winters and mild summers. Recently, winters have become very cold. This has killed many people and cattle. On June 2nd, 2008, 52 people and 200,000 head of cattle died in heavy blizzards in Mongolia.
On March 1–2, 2008, a heavy dust storm hit northeast China and parts of Mongolia. and ended over North Korea and South Korea on the March 4 . 
Twenty one people died in a rural Mongolian blizzard on May 8, 2008. Parts of the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia were also affected on the May 8, 2008.
On June 2, 2009, it was said that 15 people and 10,000 head of cattle had died by this date in Mongolia.
April 1–2, 2010 had temperatures plummet to -50 degrees in Mongolia’s Tuul valley, A nomad named Urna said she bought 400 bundles of grass to feed the animals in preparation for more bad weather. The Mongolian Red Cross has said that about 4,500,000 livestock died as a result of the bad weather this year [2010]. Tume, who lives in Ulan Bator, said that he had noticed that there were several really harsh winters in a row too. He blamed climate change, but experts said that overgrazing by cattle had also killed off most of the country’s grassland.
Mongolia known as the "Land of the Eternal Blue Sky" or "Country of Blue Sky" () because it has over 250 sunny days a year.
Mongolia is the world's 19th-largest country (after Iran). It is significantly larger than the next-largest country, Peru. Mongolia does not share a border with Kazakhstan but its westernmost point is only 38 kilometers (24 mi) away from Kazakhstan.
The geography of Mongolia is varied, with the Gobi Desert to the south and with cold and mountainous regions to the north and west. Most of Mongolia consists of steppes, with forested areas comprising 11.2% of the total land area.  The highest point in Mongolia is the Khüiten Peak in the Tavan bogd massif, at a height of 4,374 m (14,350 ft).
Mongolia is divided into 21 provinces called "aimags". The "aimags" are divided into 329 districts called "sums".
The official language of Mongolia is Mongolian, and is spoken by 95% of the population. A variety of dialects of Oirat and Buryatare are spoken across the country. Turkic languages, such as Kazakh and Tuvan, are also spoken in the western part of the country.  
Today, Mongolian is written using the Cyrillic alphabet, although in the past it was written using the Mongolian script. The traditional alphabet is being slowly reintroduced through schools recently.
Russian is the most frequently spoken foreign language in Mongolia due to their diplomatic ties as former communist states. However English has been gradually replacing Russian as the second language in order to become part of the world economy. Korean has gained popularity as tens of thousands of Mongolians work and study in South Korea. Interest in Chinese has been growing because of the neighboring power.
Mongolia is currently free of bird and swine flu, but 103 air travelers who were suspected victims, and the plane crew of 6, were quarantined for 7 days in Ulaan Bator(Ulaanbaatar) in May 2009.
It may have come over the border from the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia.

</doc>
<doc id="17845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17845" title="Fourier transform">
Fourier transform

The Fourier transform is a mathematical function that can be used to show the different parts of a continuous signal. It is most used to convert from time domain to frequency domain. Fourier transforms are often used to calculate the frequency spectrum of a signal that changes over time. This kind of signal processing has many uses such as cryptography, oceanography, speech recognition, or handwriting recognition. Fourier transforms can also be used to solve differential equations.
The Fourier transform of a function formula_1 is given by
formula_2
The inverse Fourier transform is given by
formula_3
A Fourier transform shows what frequencies are in a signal. For example, consider a sound wave which contains three different musical notes: A, B, and C. Making a graph of the Fourier transform of this sound wave (with the frequency on the x-axis and the intensity on the y-axis) will show a peak at each frequency which corresponds with one of the musical notes.
Many signals can be created by adding together cosines and sines with varying amplitudes and frequencies. The Fourier transform plots the amplitudes and phases of these cosines and sines against their respective frequencies.
Fourier transforms are important because many signals make more sense when their frequencies are separated. In the audio example above, looking at the signal with respect to time does not make it obvious that the notes A, B, and C are in the signal. Many systems do different things to different frequencies, so these kinds of systems can be described by what they do to each frequency. An example of this is a filter which blocks high frequencies.
Calculating a Fourier transform requires understanding of integration and imaginary numbers. Computers are usually used to calculate Fourier transforms of anything but the simplest signals. The Fast Fourier Transform is a method computers use to quickly calculate a Fourier transform.

</doc>
<doc id="17851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17851" title="1671">
1671


</doc>
<doc id="17852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17852" title="1679">
1679


</doc>
<doc id="17853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17853" title="1691">
1691


</doc>
<doc id="17855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17855" title="1719">
1719


</doc>
<doc id="17856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856" title="1753">
1753


</doc>
<doc id="17865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17865" title="The Divine Comedy">
The Divine Comedy

The Divine Comedy is an epic poem (a poem that is very long, like a story) written by Dante Alighieri. It is about a trip through the afterlife. The poem has three parts: "Inferno" (Hell), "Purgatorio" (Purgatory), and "Paradiso" (Paradise, or Heaven). "The Divine Comedy" is a piece of world literature.
"Inferno" is the most famous section of the poem. The poem is about the travels of a man through Christian hell, purgatory, and heaven. Note that "comedy" does not mean funny here, but rather that it has a positive ending.
The narrator, Dante Alighieri, is lost in a forest in front of a giant mountain which symbolizes sin, and is harassed by a lion, leopard and she-wolf. He finds the Roman poet Virgil, who has to lead him through the nine circles of hell so Dante can be saved.
Souls that did not accept Christ are here. This includes atheists, pagans, and the unbaptized. They did not actively sin, but they could not enter Heaven because of their lack of faith and even Hell would not allow them to enter very far.
The punishment for the souls is not physical, but that they have no hope of seeing Christ, so they are mentally punished.
Beyond the first circle, souls are assigned their place by Minos, who wraps his tail around his legs a corresponding number of times,and forces them to descend to their appropriate circle.
In this circle souls who succumb to lust. They are the first ones to be truly punished in Hell. These souls are blown around in a giant storm which will last forever. This symbolizes the power of lust to blow one about aimlessly.
This circle is guarded by Cerberus. The gluttons are punished here, lying in cold mud. While in life they were provided with warmth and comfort from their food, in Hell the souls are punished with cold and heavy rain. Cerberus claws at the spirits, rips at their skin, and bites holes.
In life the sinners miserly hoarded their money greedily, while the prodigal spent their money foolishly. Both groups are pushing and pulling great bags of gold as they did in life. The greedy are guarded by Plutus, god of riches and wealth.
In the river Styx the wrathful fight each other on the surface. The river surrounds the city of Dis, where active sinners are located. When Virgil tries to enter, the angels of Hell slam the door in his face. He and Dante proceed to the gate where Christ entered Hell during his three-day trip to release a select few people. During Christ's Harrowing of Hell he broke the door so it could never close again.
The heretics are trapped in red-hot iron tombs.
This circle holds those who were violent in their lives. The people who were violent to people and property are in a river of fire. The depth of their placement in the river corresponds to how much you damaged in life. For example, Alexander the Great is immersed up to his eyebrows. The violent against self are turned into plants. The violent to God and the violent to nature are also here. They have to walk on flaming sand for eternity.
Pimps, seducers, flatterers, simonists, sorcerers, fortune-tellers, false prophets, corrupt politicians, hypocrites, thieves, schismatics, alchemists, and counterfeiters are in this circle. Each punishment is the opposite of what they did in life. Fortune-tellers, who tried to see things ahead of time, are forced to walk backwards.
The traitors to family are immersed in ice up to their faces. Traitors to political entities are also here. Traitors to guests lie in the ice, which covers them completely except for their faces. Traitors to their lords and benefactors are completely buried in ice in various positions.
In the very center of Hell, because he sinned the ultimate sin (treachery against God), lies Satan. Satan is described as a beast with three faces, six wings, and is eternally weeping from his six eyes. Each of Satan's mouths chews on a famous traitor from history. Brutus and Cassius are being chewed feet-first. The center mouth is chewing on Judas Iscariot. His head is being chewed on by Satan, and his back is being skinned by Satan's claws. 
Dante and Virgil escape by climbing down Satan's fur through the center of the earth and out the other hemisphere, where they will climb Mount Purgatory.

</doc>
<doc id="17867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17867" title="Artist">
Artist

An artist is a person who creates art. This word is used most often for persons and activities of 'high culture'. That is for example drawing, painting, sculpture, acting, dancing, writing, filmmaking, photography, and music. Sometimes a person who is very good at their job is called an artist, even if it is not considered as art. A scientist or mathematician can be called an artist. 
Wiktionary defines the noun 'artist' (one artist, two artists) as follows:
In ancient Greece there was the word "Techne" which is often translated as art. From this word comes "technical" and America is now the root of words such as technical, technology, etc. The seven muses were the gods of artists in the seven fields of human excellence: • Epic and lyric • History • Choral singing and poetry of love • Music • Tragedy • Religious Hymns • Gay poetry, poetry and rustic comedy • Dance • Astronomy and Geometry.
The word comes from Latin art "ars", that literally means skill method or technique, combined with the beauty of the objects produced. In the Middle Ages already existed the word artist, although its meaning is closer to what we now call the craftsman.
Concept art expresses a series of creations, called classical arts (painting, sculpture, literature, dance, music, architecture and cinema). However, considering someone as an artist is not limited to a series of works or concrete creations.
An artist is a person exercising the arts and produce artistic works. The artist is someone who has a special sensitivity to create a work or activity. There is no specific classification of what are an artist's own activities .In any case, the concept artist implies knowledge of art and at the same time, is a craft that can be professional but not necessarily. The artist seeks to create an object or activity that has a component of beauty. Very beautiful is one aspect cherished by the creators, but not only that. It also seeks to communicate feelings and ideas and form their own world.
An artist is a person able to put their point of view, their way of seeing the world and feel things on a canvas, a sheet or paper. An artist is a dreamer, is a poet, he is a speaker, is someone provided with sensibility sufficient or necessary to make us see things through their eyes.

</doc>
<doc id="17870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17870" title="Jacksonville, Florida">
Jacksonville, Florida

Jacksonville is a city in northeast Florida, USA. It is home to the University of North Florida. It is the county seat of Duval County.
It is the largest city in the Continental United States in terms of area. It covers nearly all of Duval County in North Florida. It is also the largest city in Florida and one of the 15 largest cities in the United States. A football team called the Jacksonville Jaguars plays there.

</doc>
<doc id="17874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17874" title="Fetishism">
Fetishism

Fetishism can be one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="17878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17878" title="Heinrich Heine">
Heinrich Heine

Christian Johann Heinrich Heine (born as "Harry Heine" 13 December 1797–17 February 1856) was one of the most significant German poets of the 19th century.
Heine was born into an assimilated Jewish family in Düsseldorf, Germany. His father was a tradesman.
After his father's business failed, Heine was sent to Hamburg. His uncle in Hamburg was a very successful banker, so Heine started learning his business, but he droped it later on. Then Heine started to study law at the universities of Göttingen, Bonn and Berlin, but he was more interested in literature than in law. He took a degree in law in 1825. At the same time he had decided to convert from Judaism to Protestantism. This was necessary because of the severe restrictions on Jews in the German states. Only Christians were allowed to have certain businesses or to be clerks of the state. Jews were also forbidden to become university professors, which was a particular ambition for Heine. Heine himself said, his conversion was "the ticket of admission into European culture".
Heine is best known for his lyric poetry, much of which was set to music by lieder composers, esp. Franz Schubert and Robert Schumann.
His start as poet Heine made with "Gedichte" ("Poems") in 1821. Heine's one-sided infatuation with his cousins Amalie and Therese later inspired him to write some of his loveliest lyrics; "Buch der Lieder" ("Book of Songs", 1827) was Heine's first comprehensive collection of verse.
Heine left Germany for Paris, France in 1831. There he associated with utopian socialists. He met people who fellowed Count Saint-Simon, who preached an egalitarian classless society.
He remained in Paris for the rest of his life. His only visit to Germany was in 1843. German authorities banned his works and those of others who were considered to be associated with the Young Germany movement in 1835.
Heine continued to comment on German politics and society from a distance. Heine wrote "Deutschland. Ein Wintermärchen" ("Germany. A Winter's Tale"). In 1844; his friend, Karl Marx, published it in his newspaper "Vorwärts" ("Forward") in 1844.
One of the books was burned by the Nazis. One of Heine's most famous lines is now: "Where they burn books, they will, in the end, burn human beings too" ("Almansor", 1821).

</doc>
<doc id="17880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17880" title="Cabbage">
Cabbage

Cabbage ("Brassica oleracea" Capitata Group) is an edible plant. It is a lot like broccoli, cauliflower or Brussels sprouts. Cabbage is eaten in many ways around the world. Coleslaw and sauerkraut are popular foods that use cabbage. It is also used to make kimchi and borscht, and can also be used in salads. Red cabbage juice can be used as a pH indicator. Cabbages are usually green, but they can also be red.
Cabbages can come in many different types, such as the previously mentioned red and green cabbages, but they can also be in other types. These include white cabbage, also known as Dutch cabbage, and Savoy cabbage.

</doc>
<doc id="17881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17881" title="Pool">
Pool

The word pool refers to many different things:

</doc>
<doc id="17883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17883" title="Rupee">
Rupee

The rupee is the name of a currency amount ("denomination" of money) in various coountries.
It is used in the Republic of India and Pakistan. It was also used in British India, the former East Pakistan until 1971, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Mauritius, and the Seychelles. In past times, rupees were also the name of the money used in Burma and in the German and British colonies in East Africa. The name comes from a Sanskrit word meaning silver. The rupiah of Indonesia and the rufiyah of the Maldives are kinds of money that also got their name from this word. All of these were previously Spanish dollars. 

</doc>
<doc id="17894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17894" title="Category:1856 deaths">
Category:1856 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="17899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17899" title="500">
500

500 (Roman numerals: D) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Friday.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="17900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17900" title="1555">
1555


</doc>
<doc id="17901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17901" title="Diesel fuel">
Diesel fuel

Diesel oil or diesel fuel is a type of fuel for cars. It is also an oil used for an energy source. It is made from petroleum and from various other sources.
It is named after Rudolf Diesel who in 1892 invented the diesel engine.

</doc>
<doc id="17907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17907" title="Düsseldorf International Airport">
Düsseldorf International Airport

Düsseldorf International Airport (; is an airport in Germany. It is eight kilometres from Düsseldorf. The airport has the IATA Airport Code DUS. There is one other airport named "Düsseldorf Express Airport, Mönchengladbach", but that is only a continental airport and has only a few lines, mostly private jets.
The international airport supports flights to 180 destinations on four continents and hosts 70 airlines. The airport has 800 takeoffs and landings per day.
The airport was opened on April 19, 1927, after two years of construction. However, the first aircraft to land in northern Düsseldorf was the Zeppelin LZ-III in 1909.
On April 11, 1996 there was a fire in the airport, probably caused by welding work on the roof. 17 people were killed, mostly due to smoke inhalation. The terminal building was badly damaged, and was closed for five years. By July 1, 2001 it had been nearly completely re-built and was re-opened.
A suspended monorail connects the terminal building with the InterCity and ICE train station (High speed and extremely high speed trains). The so-called "SkyTrain" travels the 2.5 kilometers between the terminal and station at a maximum speed of 50 km/h. It started operation in 2002, replacing a shuttle bus service, and is not free of charge to use.
Currently, the following airlines operate routes to and from Düsseldorf International Airport:
Before September 11 Düsseldorf International Airport had many flights from the United States. After direct flights to the United States are only from Privatair and LTU. Privatair has flights going to Chicago O'Hare and New York Newark airports, which are codeshared with Lufthansa. LTU flies to Fort Myers, Los Angeles, Miami, Orlando, and New York (JFK).2005 announced that it would begin service between Düsseldorf and Atlanta in March 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="17908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17908" title="Sauna">
Sauna

A sauna is a small room or building that is made hot. The heat of a sauna is calming and makes the person using it sweat. This is believed to help people be more healthy though it causes stress on the body by overheating. Today many countries and groups of people have different ways of heating and using a sauna. The temperature is often 80°C in Finnish saunas. The heat can be more than 100°C. Finnish and Swedish saunas have lower humidity (the air is less wet) to make this high heat comfortable.
The Turkish hammam has a high humidity (the air is more wet) and a lower temperature.
Today saunas can often be found at hotels and places for sports and exercise. In Finland, they are more common and are also often in private apartments and office 
buildings.
In almost every house in Finland they have a sauna.
In some cultures, swimsuits must be worn in a sauna. In other cultures swimsuits are not be worn. Swimsuits are more often worn when men and women use a sauna together. Some saunas are only for men, or only for women. Some places have fixed times when each gender can use a sauna. Private saunas may have their own rules.

</doc>
<doc id="17909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17909" title="Joseph Beuys">
Joseph Beuys

Joseph Beuys (pronounced "boyce") (12 May 1921 – 23 January 1986) was a German artist who made arts in many forms including sculpture, performance art (happening, fluxus), video art, and installations. He was an important artist in the second half of the 20th century.
Beuys was born in Krefeld on 12 May 1921, but grew up in the nearby city of Kleve. His family was profoundly catholic. As a young child he began his interest in art by often engaging in making watercolours. He first saw modern art when visiting the studio of Achilles Moortgat. At the age of seventeen in 1938, he joined Hitler Youth, like many young German men at that time. He studied many disciplines before engaging in his art practice, and was particularly interested in natural sciences and history, including alchemy, and focussed on medicine with the intention of becoming a doctor. During his studies, however, World War II began, and he became a soldier in the German air force. There, he was a rear gunner (gunner in the back) in a military airplane. In 1943 one of his close friends died in a concentration camp.
One fascinating aspect of Joseph Beuys's personal history is the reason he consistently used felt and fat in his works. He is quoted as saying: "For me, fat was a great discovery, because it was the very material that could seem the most chaotic and indeterminate. I could use it with heat or cold, I could transform it with means that are not the traditional ones for sculpture- with temperature, for example. So I could turn the character of this fat from a chaotic and fluctuating condition to that of a rigid form... So I took an extreme position in sculpture and a material that was absolutely fundamental for life and not associated with art.”
Many people believe that this use of felt and fat recalled a plane crash experienced while flying for the "Luftwaffe" in the Crimea in the winter of 1942-43. Beuys claimed that he had been saved by a nomadic tribe of Tartars who, sympathetic to the Germans after persecution by the Soviets, ‘covered my body in fat to help it regenerate warmth, and wrapped it in felt as an insulator to keep warmth in’. In fact this episode was fabricated, partly on the basis of a dream, but he consistently referred to this episode and it can be seen as a private mythology of his.
After the war Beuys studied at the academy in Düsseldorf from 1946 to 1951. For most of the 1950s he was mostly drawing.
In 1961 he became professor of sculpture there, but was fired in 1972 because he said that his classes must be open to anybody who wanted to take them. He thought that classes should be free and he worked in his classes with everybody who wanted. His students protested when he was fired, so he was allowed to hold his studio there, but he still lost his job.
In 1962 Beuys was member of the "Fluxus movement". They made art together by drawing, sculpting, making music, and literature.
Beuys believed that arts has an important rule in society.
His first problems with politicians were when he lost his job as professor.
In the 1980s he was part of the Peace Movement and protested against nuclear missiles in Germany. He was one of the first members of the Green Party in the 1980s.
Famous works are for example:
In 1979, a large retrospective of Beuys' work at the Guggenheim Museum in New York City confirmed his reputation as one of the most important artists of his time. He died in 1986 in Düsseldorf.
The web comic Cat And Girl makes frequent reference to Joseph Beuys, including his art (reference 1 reference 2) and cultural references.

</doc>
<doc id="17912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17912" title="Kunstakademie Düsseldorf">
Kunstakademie Düsseldorf

The Staatliche Kunstakademie Düsseldorf is the Arts Academy of the city of Düsseldorf. It is well-known all over the world by its most famous members like Joseph Beuys.
The arts school started 1762 as school of drawing by Lambert Krahe (1710 - 1790), in 1773 it became Academy of drawing, painting and sculpturing of the Earls of Palatine.
In time of the Napoleonic Wars it moved to Munich. So the government of Prussia, who annexed the region of Düsseldorf after Napoleon surrendered, to open a new Royal Arts Academy in Düsseldorf. It started in 1822.
In the 1850s the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf became an international well-known arts school. The "Düsseldorfer Malerschule" was internationally known as a special kind of drawing countryside. Many students came from Scandinavia, Russia, and the United States of America to Düsseldorf.

</doc>
<doc id="17913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17913" title="Poet">
Poet

A poet is someone who writes poetry. Famous English poets are Alexander Pope, William Wordsworth, William Blake and Tennyson. A famous Spanish poet is also José de Espronceda.

</doc>
<doc id="17915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17915" title="Ruhr-Universität Bochum">
Ruhr-Universität Bochum

The is one of the biggest universities in Germany. It is in the Ruhr-Area, in the city of Bochum.
The Ruhr-Universität was the first public university that was founded in West Germany after World War II (in 1962). Later in the 1960s education expanded in West Germany and more universities were founded, but Bochum has a bright selection of subjects because it was the beginning of education expanding.
The Ruhr-University was one of the fourth largest university in Germany in the late 1980s and early 1990s with more than 40,000 students. But after the state of North Rhine-Westfalia decided to earn study fees, many students left the university and school examiners do not start studying anymore. Actually the fees are 1,000 Euro in the year (about 1,100 US$), but the Ruhr-Area is traditionally a working class region. Sommer Semester 2011 was the last semester with tuition fees http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/studienbeitrag/. The number or students now is more than 34 000 http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/universitaet/fakten/menschlich/index.html
The university of Bochum was one of the first to have Bachelor and Master degrees instead of the traditional German Diplom and Magister degree.
The Ruhr-University has about 34,000 students.http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/universitaet/fakten/menschlich/index.html Academically it is an upper middle-class university with a lot of international affairs, especially with Eastern Europe and Asia. The Ruhr-University Bochum lost some subjects by when the state reduced its budget.
The main focuses in research are neurosciences, engineering, European law, plasma physics, solidstate physics, biochemistry, economics, Middle Ages and modern history, philosophy and languages.

</doc>
<doc id="17920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17920" title="Aachen">
Aachen

Aachen is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It has about 260,000 inhabitants and a well-known university, the Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH).
The Romans built a spa over hot water springs here in ancient times. 
In the Middle Ages, it was the capital city of the Frankish emperor, Charlemagne. The city was called Aix-la-Chapelle by the French. 
Charlemagne ordered the building of a cathedral in 786 AD. He was buried in a tomb in this cathedral. German emperors were crowned in the cathedral in Aachen until 1531.
European countries made two important peace agreements in Aachen. In 1668, the first treaty (agreement) ended the War of Devolution between France and the alliance of England, Holland and Sweden. The treaty allowed France to keep most of the towns it had captured in Flanders the year before. In 1748, the second treaty ended the War of the Austrian Succession. In this war, France, Prussia, and other nations tried to take territory from the Austrian Empire. The treaty said that Maria Theresa of Austria was the ruler of these territories. It also gave Prussia the territory of Silesia. 
Since 1972, Aachen has been part of the Cologne Government Region.

</doc>
<doc id="17921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17921" title="Marburg">
Marburg

Marburg is a city in Hesse, Germany, on the Lahn river. It is the main town of the Marburg-Biedenkopf Rural District. It has about 80,000 inhabitants and a small, but well-known university.

</doc>
<doc id="17922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17922" title="Akron, Ohio">
Akron, Ohio

Akron is a large city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is found near the Ohio & Lake Erie canal. It is home to the U.S. rubber industry, including Goodyear tires.

</doc>
<doc id="17923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17923" title="Philipps University of Marburg">
Philipps University of Marburg

The Philipps-University Marburg is the oldest Protestant university of the world, and was founded by Martin Luther's friend Philipp of Hesse in the time of the reformation.
Major areas of research are medicine, nano-science, materials science, and near eastern studies. 

</doc>
<doc id="17924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17924" title="Youngstown, Ohio">
Youngstown, Ohio

Youngstown is a city in Ohio, United States. It is the county seat of Mahoning County. Part of Youngstown is also in Trumbull County. The town is on the Mahoning River. It is about southeast of Cleveland and northwest of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Youngstown has its own metropolitan area; it is often thought of as part of the Pittsburgh Tri-State area and Greater Cleveland. Youngstown is west of the Pennsylvania state line. It is midway between New York City and Chicago via Interstate 80.
The city was named for John Young. He was an early settler from Whitestown, New York, who started the town's first sawmill and gristmill. Youngstown is in an area of the United States that is often called the Rust Belt. The town was known as a center of steel making. Youngstown was forced to change itself when the U.S. steel industry fell into decline in the 1970s. Towns in the area did not have a lot of business after that. Youngstown also falls within the Appalachian Ohio region, among the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains. The 2010 census showed that Youngstown had a total population of 66,982, making it Ohio's ninth largest city. The city has had a decline of over 60% of its population since 1960.
According to the 2010 Census, the Youngstown-Warren-Boardman Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) contains 565,773 people and includes Mahoning and Trumbull counties in Ohio, and Mercer County in Pennsylvania. The Steel Valley area as a whole has 763,207 residents.
Youngstown was named for New York native John Young. He surveyed the area in 1796. He moved there soon after. On February 9, 1797, Young bought the town of from the Western Reserve Land Company for $16,085. The 1797 start of Youngstown was officially recorded on August 19, 1802.
The area of today's Youngstown was part of the Connecticut Western Reserve. This was a part of the Northwest Territory for settlers from the state of Connecticut. While many of the area's early settlers came from Connecticut, Youngstown also had a large number of Scots-Irish settlers from neighboring Pennsylvania. The first European Americans to settle in the area were Pittsburgh native James Hillman and his wife, Catherine Dougherty. By 1798, Youngstown was the home of several families who were lived near the point where Mill Creek meets the Mahoning River. Boardman Township was started in 1798 by Elijah Boardman. He was a member of the Connecticut Land Company. Also started in 1798 was Austintown by John McCollum. He was a settler from New Jersey.
In 1800, governor Arthur St. Clair made Trumbull County (named for Connecticut Governor Jonathan Trumbull). He named the smaller town of Warren as its "county seat". In 1813, Trumbull County was divided into townships, with Youngstown Township being a big part of what became Mahoning County. The village of Youngstown was incorporated in 1848, and in 1867 Youngstown was chartered as a city. It became the county seat in 1876.
The discovery of coal by the community in the early 19th century helped Youngstown become part of the Erie Canal. The Pennsylvania and Ohio Canal Company was organized in 1835. The canal was completed in 1840. David Tod, who was later Ohio governor during the Civil War, persuaded Lake Erie steamboat owners that coal from the Mahoning Valley could fuel their vessels if canal transportation were available between Youngstown and Cleveland. The arrival of the railroad in 1856 made it easier for more economic growth.
Youngstown's industrial development made the Mahoning Valley different. The community's coal industry made hundreds of immigrants from Wales, Germany, and Ireland come to the area. With the start of steel mills in the late 19th century, Youngstown became a popular destination for immigrants from Eastern Europe, Italy, and Greece. In the early 20th century, the community saw more immigrants from non-European countries including what is today's Lebanon, Israel, and Syria. By the 1920s, this change in the town's population made people who were there earlier upset. Because of their anger, the Mahoning Valley became a center of Ku Klux Klan activity. The situation reached a climax in 1924, when street clashes between Klan members and Italian and Irish Americans in neighboring Niles led Ohio Governor A. Victor Donahey to declare martial law. By 1928 the Klan was in steep decline; and three years later, the group sold its Canfield, Ohio, meeting area, Kountry Klub Field.
The growth of industry made more people from the United States and Latin America come to Youngstown. By the late 19th century, African Americans were well represented in Youngstown. The first local African Methodist Episcopal Church was started in 1871. In the 1880s, local attorney William R. Stewart was the second African American elected to the Ohio House of Representatives. A large increase of African Americans in the early 20th century was because of changes in the industrial area. During the national Steel Strike of 1919, local industrialists recruited thousands of workers from the South, many of whom were Black. This move upset local Whites, and for decades, African-American steelworkers experienced discrimination in the workplace. Migration from the South rose dramatically in the 1940s, when the mechanization of southern agriculture brought an end to the exploitative sharecropping system, leading onetime farm laborers to seek industrial jobs.
The city's population became more diverse since the end of World War II, when a seemingly robust steel industry attracted thousands of workers. In the 1950s, the Latino population grew significantly; and by the 1970s, St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church and the First Spanish Baptist Church of Ohio were among the largest religious institutions for Spanish-speaking residents in the Youngstown metropolitan area. While diversity is among the community's enduring characteristics, the industrial economy that drew various groups to the area collapsed in the late 1970s. In response to subsequent challenges, the city has taken well-publicized steps to diversify economically, while building on some traditional strengths.
The United States Census Bureau says the city has a total area of . Land is of that area, and water is .
Youngstown is in the Mahoning Valley on the Glaciated Allegheny Plateau. The glaciers left behind a plain with valleys at the end of the last Ice Age. The valleys were caused by the Mahoning River crossing the plain. Lakes made by glaciers that dammed small streams were eventually drained. This left behind fertile land.

</doc>
<doc id="17925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17925" title="Dortmund">
Dortmund

Dortmund is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is part of the Arnsberg Government Region
Dortmund has about 590,000 inhabitants and is in the Ruhr Area. There is a university in Dortmund. The biggest soccer club is Borussia Dortmund.

</doc>
<doc id="17932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17932" title="Netherlands Antilles">
Netherlands Antilles

The Netherlands Antilles was a country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The country was originally a group of six islands in the Caribbean Sea. Some were discovered in 1493 by Christopher Columbus, and some were discovered in 1499 by Alonso de Ojeda.
Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao are part of the Leeward Islands. They are near Venezuela. Saint Martin, Sint Eustatius, and Saba are part of the Windward Islands. They are near Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Of these, the island Sint Maarten is in fact part of two countries: the northern part belongs to France (as Saint Martin), but the southern part is Dutch (as Sint Maarten). 
Aruba left the Netherlands Antilles in 1986. When Curaçao and Sint Maarten did the same thing on 10 October 2010, the country no longer existed. The remaining BES Islands of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba now belong to the Netherlands and are called the Dutch Caribbean islands.
Because the Netherlands Antilles was a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands proper was also the Queen of the Netherlands Antilles, but the islands' residents had a government of their own. Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten are now separate countries within the Kingdom. All of these places still have King Willem-Alexander as their monarch today. 
The last Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles was Emily de Jongh-Elhage. The last Governor was Frits Goedgedrag, who is since the 10 October 2010 the first Governor of Curaçao.

</doc>
<doc id="17933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17933" title="Alfred Nobel">
Alfred Nobel

Alfred Nobel () (October 21, 1833 – December 10, 1896) was a Swedish scientist, engineer, and weapons manufacturer. He is well known for the invention of dynamite and for creating the Nobel Prize. He left instructions in his will that his money should create the Nobel Prize after reading an article in a French newspaper that called him the "merchant of death" and said that he would be remembered for his invention of dynamite and its ability to kill more people than ever before. Nobel left 31 million kronor (the Swedish currency) to the awards after his death on December 10, 1896.
Nobel was born on October 21, 1833. His father, Immanuel Nobel, was an engineer and inventor. His mother was Andriette Ahlsell Nobel. In 1833, Immanuel Nobel was forced into bankruptcy due to losses in his construction company. 

</doc>
<doc id="17936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17936" title="Pharmacy">
Pharmacy

A pharmacy is a shop where therapeutic drugs are sold. Sometimes a pharmacy is also called a "drug store". The people working in a pharmacy are called pharmacists or chemists (British English). These people can recognise simple diseases and give drugs for some of them.
Certain drugs are special, because they can be addictive, or they change the way other drugs act, or they need to be taken in a special way. These drugs cannot simply be bought at a pharmacy. A prescription is necessary to get them. Medical doctors give out prescriptions, which can then be used to get the drug.
Many pharmacies do not sell drugs only. They also sell beauty products and hygiene-related products, like tampons for women and contraceptives.
Pharmacy is also a branch of chemistry that studies the molecular structure of drugs to find better drugs.

</doc>
<doc id="17937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17937" title="Kiss">
Kiss

People kiss each other, usually by using their lips and mouth to touch each other. However, there are many different types of kiss, with different meanings. Also, the meaning of kissing may be different in different cultures. Most often, people kiss to show love or affection for each other. Sometimes people kiss as a sign of friendship, sometimes it is a ritual performed to greet someone. 
There are different ways of kissing. People might kiss on the cheeks to greet someone, or to bid them farewell. Depending on the culture it usually does not mean that the kisser loves the person he or she kissed. Kissing when female friends meet is usual in many countries, with some interesting variations. Parisian females often do a rapid double 'air kiss' or 'cheek kiss': a kiss on each side twice, but without lips touching flesh.
French kissing is an erotic gesture. It involves touching tongues while kissing. It is more intimate than other forms of kissing
It is possible to spread diseases through kissing, but it is also possible to exaggerate the danger. Exotic diseases like herpes and mononucleosis can be spread, but that is rare, and spreading HIV this way is almost unknown. Colds and 'flu are much more likely to be spread. Mononucleosis is well known for being spread through kissing. Many diseases that can be spread by sharing drinks can be spread by kissing.

</doc>
<doc id="17938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17938" title="Brothel">
Brothel

A brothel is a bar, nightclub or hotel where prostitutes work. People go there to buy sex for money.
In some countries operating brothels is legal, in other countries it is illegal. Examples of countries where brothels are illegal are Canada and most of the United States. Brothels are legal in some countries from Europe, for example. A country which has permissive laws regarding prostitution is the Netherlands.
Most of the time, where legal, brothels need to be registered like other businesses. However even if it is legal to run a brothel, there may still be conflicts with the law. Examples of problem cases are:
Brothels have been known for most of recorded history. At first there was temple prostitution in many Mediterranean and Middle Eastern countries. 
In Ancient Greece and Roman civilizations, brothels were established. Sometimes they were licensed institutions. This was first recorded in Athens in 594 BC. Public sources of the time said it was good that Solon installed the brothel. People said this would reduce the problems caused by sexually unfulfilled sailors and workers. It would also fill money into the public purse. This first official brothel was soon followed by many others, and also influenced the creation of special schools in which various classes of prostitutes (from slavegirls to future courtesans) were trained for their profession.
Brothels use a variety of business models:
The third option (the brothel owner renting space and facilities to prostitutes) gives some way for the brothel owner to say he did not know what is going on. This is especially the case where prostitution is forbidden or restricted. Brothel owners often disguise their actions as running a massage parlor, a bar or a similar venue. 
Allowing such places (while forbidding prostitution) can also give politicians a way to save face when they do not want to put the laws against prostitution into practice.

</doc>
<doc id="17940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17940" title="Latitude">
Latitude

The latitude of the Earth gives the distance north and south of the equator. It is measured in degrees. Latitude is represented by the Greek letter phi, formula_1. It is usually used along with a measurement of longitude in order to pinpoint a location on Earth.
The equator is numbered 0 degrees. Everything north or south of the equator is designated either as north latitude or south latitude. The Antarctic Circle, Tropic of Capricorn, Tropic of Cancer, and Arctic Circle are all circles of latitude.

</doc>
<doc id="17943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17943" title="Jaleel White">
Jaleel White

Jaleel White (born November 27, 1976) is an American actor. He is best known for playing the character of Steve Urkel in the television series "Family Matters", popular in the 1990s. He was also the first English voice of Sonic the Hedgehog.

</doc>
<doc id="17948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17948" title="Chemical substance">
Chemical substance

A chemical substance is any material with a known chemical composition. For example, water has the same properties and the same ratio of hydrogen to oxygen whether it came from a river or was made in a laboratory. Typical chemical substances found in the home include water, salt (sodium chloride) and bleach. Generally, substances exist as a solid, a liquid, or a gas, and may change between these "phases of matter" when there are changes in temperature or pressure.

</doc>
<doc id="17956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17956" title="South China tiger">
South China tiger

The South China tiger ("Panthera tigris amoyensis") is an almost extinct subspecies of the Tiger. There are now 20-30 of them left in the wild and 60 left in captivity. It is one of the world's ten most endangered animals and the most endangered of the six surviving tiger subspecies. The South Chinae tiger is also known as the "Chinese", "Amoy", or "Xiamen" tiger.
It can be distinguished from other tiger subspecies by its narrow face, it's longer nose, more intense orange colour, short fur, longer legs, and shorter stripes which are spaced far apart from each other compared to other tiger subspecies. The South China tiger has the least amount of stripes out of all the tiger subspecies, and is the second smallest tiger.
A male South China tiger is around 2.3 to 2.65 m (91 to 104 in) long, and weighs 130 to 175 kg (290 to 390 lb). Females are smaller and are around 2.2 to 2.4 m (87 to 94 in) long, and weigh 110 to 115 kg (240 to 250 lb). The greatest length of the skull in males is 318 to 343 mm (12.5 to 13.5 in), and in females 273 to 301 mm (10.7 to 11.9 in).
The South China tiger is a carnivorous predator, hunting its prey by stalking it until the South China tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. South China tigers usually hunt large mammals like deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.
The South China tiger is found on mountains, and in temperate, upland forests of southern-China.
Females are pregnant for around 3 to 4 months before giving birth to around 5 cubs. Newborn South China tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the South China tiger cubs are introduced to meat. South China tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.

</doc>
<doc id="17961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17961" title="Windows XP">
Windows XP

Windows XP is a version of the Microsoft Windows operating system. It is for personal computers. Microsoft released Windows XP on October 25, 2001. XP came after Windows 2000 and Windows Me. It was replaced by Windows Vista. The letters "XP" stand for "eXPerience".
Windows XP was the second most used computer operating system in the world as of April 2012. Microsoft stopped supporting Windows XP on April 8, 2014.
Windows XP Home Edition is an edition that was made for home users. Windows XP Professional was made for business users. It had advanced management features. Windows XP Media Center Edition was for people who edit videos and pictures a lot. Another special edition of XP is called the Tablet PC Edition, for pen-based laptops.
An edition of Windows XP for 64-bit computers was released as Windows XP x64 Edition. It had all the features of Windows XP Professional, but was made to work on 64-bit computers instead of the older 32-bit computers. There was also a separate edition for 64-bit Itanium computers: Windows XP 64-bit Edition Version 2002. On the feature level, it is different from Windows XP Professional. There is no activation needed in this edition. It was later succeeded by Windows XP 64-bit Edition Version 2003 on March 2003. 
There is a Windows XP Starter Edition. That was sold mostly in developing countries. The price was low, because Microsoft wanted to fight the high software piracy rate in those countries. It could only be bought with a new computer.
The system requirements for Windows XP Home and Professional editions are:

</doc>
<doc id="17965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17965" title="Crotram">
Crotram

CROTRAM is a group of Croatian companies that make trams. They make a tram called TMK 2200.
Crotram is a consortium (a group of companies that cooperate) made of three companies: Elektroindustrija Koncar(cro. Končar) and Gredelj, both from city of Zagreb, and Duro Dakovic (cro.Đuro Đaković), from Slavonski Brod.
Crotram sells their trams to ZET, the company that is in charge of all the public transport for the city of Zagreb. So far Crotram has only sold TMK 2200s to Zagreb, but they are trying to sell them in other cities.
The TMK 2200 is 32 meters long, and it can go as fast as 70km/h. 202 people can ride at one time.

</doc>
<doc id="18006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18006" title="MediaWiki:Common.css">
MediaWiki:Common.css

/* Default styling for HTML elements */
dfn {
/* Main page fixes */
 font-weight: bold;
body.page-Main_Page #ca-delete {
body.page-Main_Page #mp-topbanner {
/* Edit window toolbar */
 height: 22px;
/* Highlight data points in the info action if specified in the URL */
body.action-info :target {
/* Make the list of references smaller */
ol.references,
div.reflist,
div.refbegin {
div.refbegin-100 {
div.reflist ol.references {
/* Highlight clicked reference in blue to help navigation */
ol.references li:target,
sup.reference:target,
span.citation:target {
/* Ensure refs in table headers and the like aren't bold or italic */
sup.reference {
/* Allow hidden ref errors to be shown by user CSS */
span.brokenref {
/* Styling for citations (CSS3). Breaks long urls, etc., rather than overflowing box */
.citation {
/* For linked citation numbers and document IDs, where
@media screen, handheld {
/* Reset top margin for lists embedded in columns */
div.columns {
div.columns dl,
div.columns ol,
div.columns ul {
/* Avoid list items from breaking between columns */
div.columns li,
div.columns dd dd {
/* Style for that Lets lists flow around floating objecs */
.flowlist ul {
.flowlist ol {
.flowlist dl {
/* Style for horizontal lists (separator following item).
.hlist dl,
.hlist ol,
.hlist ul {
/* Display list items inline */
.hlist dd,
.hlist dt,
.hlist li {
/* Display nested lists inline */
.hlist dl dl, .hlist dl ol, .hlist dl ul,
.hlist ol dl, .hlist ol ol, .hlist ol ul,
.hlist ul dl, .hlist ul ol, .hlist ul ul {
/* Generate interpuncts */
.hlist dt:after {
.hlist dd:after,
.hlist li:after {
.hlist dd:last-child:after,
.hlist dt:last-child:after,
.hlist li:last-child:after {
/* For IE8 */
.hlist dd.hlist-last-child:after,
.hlist dt.hlist-last-child:after,
.hlist li.hlist-last-child:after {
/* Add parentheses around nested lists */
.hlist dd dd:first-child:before, .hlist dd dt:first-child:before, .hlist dd li:first-child:before,
.hlist dt dd:first-child:before, .hlist dt dt:first-child:before, .hlist dt li:first-child:before,
.hlist li dd:first-child:before, .hlist li dt:first-child:before, .hlist li li:first-child:before {
.hlist dd dd:last-child:after, .hlist dd dt:last-child:after, .hlist dd li:last-child:after,
.hlist dt dd:last-child:after, .hlist dt dt:last-child:after, .hlist dt li:last-child:after,
.hlist li dd:last-child:after, .hlist li dt:last-child:after, .hlist li li:last-child:after {
/* For IE8 */
.hlist dd dd.hlist-last-child:after, .hlist dd dt.hlist-last-child:after, .hlist dd li.hlist-last-child:after,
.hlist dt dd.hlist-last-child:after, .hlist dt dt.hlist-last-child:after, .hlist dt li.hlist-last-child:after,
.hlist li dd.hlist-last-child:after, .hlist li dt.hlist-last-child:after, .hlist li li.hlist-last-child:after {
/* Put ordinals in front of ordered list items */
.hlist ol {
.hlist ol > li {
.hlist ol > li:before {
.hlist dd ol > li:first-child:before,
.hlist dt ol > li:first-child:before,
.hlist li ol > li:first-child:before {
/* Unbulleted lists */
.plainlist ul {
.plainlist ul li {
/* Default style for navigation boxes */
.navbox { /* Navbox container style */
.navbox-inner,
.navbox-subgroup {
.navbox-group,
.navbox-title,
.navbox-abovebelow {
th.navbox-group { /* Group style */
.navbox,
.navbox-subgroup {
.navbox-list {
.navbox th,
.navbox-title {
.navbox-abovebelow,
th.navbox-group,
.navbox-subgroup .navbox-title {
.navbox-subgroup .navbox-group,
.navbox-subgroup .navbox-abovebelow {
.navbox-even {
.navbox-odd {
table.navbox + table.navbox { /* Single pixel border between adjacent navboxes */
.navbox .hlist td dl,
.navbox .hlist td ol,
.navbox .hlist td ul,
.navbox td.hlist dl,
.navbox td.hlist ol,
.navbox td.hlist ul {
ol + table.navbox,
ul + table.navbox {
/* Default styling for Navbar template */
.navbar {
.navbar ul {
.navbar li {
.navbar.mini li span {
/* Navbar styling when nested in infobox and navbox */
.infobox .navbar {
.navbox .navbar {
.navbox-title .navbar {
/* 'show'/'hide' buttons created dynamically by the CollapsibleTables javascript
.collapseButton {
/* In navboxes, the show/hide button balances the v·d·e links
.navbox .collapseButton {
/* Styling for JQuery makeCollapsible, matching that of collapseButton */
.mw-collapsible-toggle {
.navbox .mw-collapsible-toggle {
/* Infobox template style */
.infobox {
.infobox caption {
.infobox td,
.infobox th {
.infobox.bordered {
.infobox.bordered td,
.infobox.bordered th {
.infobox.bordered .borderless td,
.infobox.bordered .borderless th {
.infobox.sisterproject {
.infobox.standard-talk {
.infobox.standard-talk.bordered td,
.infobox.standard-talk.bordered th {
/* styles for bordered infobox with merged rows */
.infobox.bordered .mergedtoprow td,
.infobox.bordered .mergedtoprow th {
.infobox.bordered .mergedrow td,
.infobox.bordered .mergedrow th {
/* Styles for geography infoboxes, eg countries,
.infobox.geography {
.infobox.geography td,
.infobox.geography th {
.infobox.geography .mergedtoprow td,
.infobox.geography .mergedtoprow th {
.infobox.geography .mergedrow td,
.infobox.geography .mergedrow th {
.infobox.geography .mergedbottomrow td,
.infobox.geography .mergedbottomrow th {
.infobox.geography .maptable td,
.infobox.geography .maptable th {
/* Normal font styling for table row headers with scope="row" tag */
.wikitable.plainrowheaders th[scope=row] {
/* Lists in data cells are always left-aligned */
.wikitable td ul,
.wikitable td ol,
.wikitable td dl {
/* ...unless they also use the hlist class */
.wikitable.hlist td ul,
.wikitable.hlist td ol,
.wikitable.hlist td dl {
/* Icons for medialist templates ,
div.listenlist {
/* Fix for hieroglyphs specificality issue in infoboxes () */
table.mw-hiero-table td {
/* Style rules for media list templates */
div.medialist {
div.medialist ul {
div.medialist ul li {
div.medialist ul li li {
/* Change the external link icon to an Adobe icon for all PDF files
div#content a[href$=".pdf"].external,
div#content a[href*=".pdf?"].external,
div#content a[href*=".pdf#"].external,
div#content a[href$=".PDF"].external,
div#content a[href*=".PDF?"].external,
div#content a[href*=".PDF#"].external,
div#mw_content a[href$=".pdf"].external,
div#mw_content a[href*=".pdf?"].external,
div#mw_content a[href*=".pdf#"].external,
div#mw_content a[href$=".PDF"].external,
div#mw_content a[href*=".PDF?"].external,
div#mw_content a[href*=".PDF#"].external {
/* Change the external link icon to an Adobe icon anywhere the PDFlink class
div#content span.PDFlink a,
div#mw_content span.PDFlink a {
/* Content in columns with CSS instead of tables () */
div.columns-2 div.column {
div.columns-3 div.column {
div.columns-4 div.column {
div.columns-5 div.column {
/* Some Code for QD Template, show rationale better */
div.ambox-speedy-text {
/* Messagebox templates */
.messagebox {
.messagebox.merge {
.messagebox.cleanup {
.messagebox.standard-talk {
/* For old WikiProject banners inside banner shells. */
.mbox-inside .standard-talk,
.messagebox.nested-talk {
.messagebox.small {
.messagebox.small-talk {
/* Cell sizes for ambox/tmbox/imbox/cmbox/ombox/fmbox/dmbox message boxes */
th.mbox-text, td.mbox-text { /* The message body cell(s) */
td.mbox-image { /* The left image cell */
td.mbox-imageright { /* The right image cell */
td.mbox-empty-cell { /* An empty narrow cell */
/* Article message box styles */
table.ambox {
table.ambox + table.ambox { /* Single border between stacked boxes. */
.ambox th.mbox-text,
.ambox td.mbox-text { /* The message body cell(s) */
.ambox td.mbox-image { /* The left image cell */
.ambox td.mbox-imageright { /* The right image cell */
table.ambox-notice {
table.ambox-speedy {
table.ambox-delete {
table.ambox-content {
table.ambox-style {
table.ambox-move {
table.ambox-protection {
/* Image message box styles */
table.imbox {
.imbox .mbox-text .imbox { /* For imboxes inside imbox-text cells. */
.mbox-inside .imbox { /* For imboxes inside other templates. */
table.imbox-notice {
table.imbox-speedy {
table.imbox-delete {
table.imbox-content {
table.imbox-style {
table.imbox-move {
table.imbox-protection {
table.imbox-license {
table.imbox-featured {
/* Category message box styles */
table.cmbox {
table.cmbox-notice {
table.cmbox-speedy {
table.cmbox-delete {
table.cmbox-content {
table.cmbox-style {
table.cmbox-move {
table.cmbox-protection {
/* Other pages message box styles */
table.ombox {
table.ombox-notice {
table.ombox-speedy {
table.ombox-delete {
table.ombox-content {
table.ombox-style {
table.ombox-move {
table.ombox-protection {
/* Talk page message box styles */
table.tmbox {
.mediawiki .mbox-inside .tmbox { /* For tmboxes inside other templates. The "mediawiki" class ensures that */
.mbox-inside .tmbox.mbox-small { /* "small" tmboxes should not be small when */
table.tmbox-speedy {
table.tmbox-delete {
table.tmbox-content {
table.tmbox-style {
table.tmbox-move {
table.tmbox-protection,
table.tmbox-notice {
/* Disambig and set index box styles */
table.dmbox {
/* Footer and header message box styles */
table.fmbox {
table.fmbox-system {
table.fmbox-warning {
table.fmbox-editnotice {
/* Div based "warning" style fmbox messages. */
div.mw-warning-with-logexcerpt,
div.mw-lag-warn-high,
div.mw-cascadeprotectedwarning,
div#mw-protect-cascadeon {
/* Div based "system" style fmbox messages.
div.mw-lag-warn-normal,
div.fmbox-system {
/* These mbox-small classes must be placed after all other
body.mediawiki table.mbox-small { /* For the "small=yes" option. */
body.mediawiki table.mbox-small-left { /* For the "small=left" option. */
/* Style for compact ambox */
/* Hide the images */
.compact-ambox table .mbox-image,
.compact-ambox table .mbox-imageright,
.compact-ambox table .mbox-empty-cell {
/* Remove borders, backgrounds, padding, etc. */
.compact-ambox table.ambox {
body.mediawiki .compact-ambox table.mbox-small-left {
/* Style the text cell as a list item and remove its padding */
.compact-ambox table .mbox-text {
.compact-ambox table .mbox-text-span {
.skin-vector .compact-ambox table .mbox-text-span {
/* Allow for hiding text in compact form */
.compact-ambox .hide-when-compact {
/* Remove default styles for . */
div.noarticletext {
/* Hide (formatting) elements from screen, but not from screenreaders */
.visualhide {
/* Bold save button */
 font-weight: bold;
/* class hiddenStructure is defunct. See */
.hiddenStructure {
/* suppress missing interwiki image links where #ifexist cannot
.check-icon a.new {
/* Removes underlines from certain links */
.nounderlines a,
.IPA a:link, .IPA a:visited {
/* Standard Navigationsleisten, aka box hiding thingy
div.NavFrame {
div.NavFrame + div.NavFrame {
div.NavPic {
div.NavFrame div.NavHead {
div.NavFrame p,
div.NavFrame div.NavContent,
div.NavFrame div.NavContent p {
div.NavEnd {
a.NavToggle {
/* Hatnotes and disambiguation notices */
.rellink,
.dablink,
.hatnote {
.rellink i,
.dablink i,
.hatnote i {
/* Allow transcluded pages to display in lists rather than a table.
/* Geographical coordinates defaults. See 
/* When <div class="nonumtoc"> is used on the table of contents,
.nonumtoc .tocnumber {
.nonumtoc #toc ul,
.nonumtoc .toc ul {
.hlist.nonumtoc #toc ul ul,
.hlist.nonumtoc .toc ul ul {
/* Allow limiting of which header levels are shown in a TOC;
.toclimit-2 .toclevel-1 ul,
.toclimit-3 .toclevel-2 ul,
.toclimit-4 .toclevel-3 ul,
.toclimit-5 .toclevel-4 ul,
.toclimit-6 .toclevel-5 ul,
.toclimit-7 .toclevel-6 ul {
/* Styling for Template:Quote */
blockquote.templatequote {
blockquote.templatequote div.templatequotecite {
/* User block messages */
div.user-block {
/* Prevent line breaks in silly places:
.nowrap,
.nowraplinks a,
.nowraplinks .selflink,
sup.reference a {
/* But allow wrapping where desired: */
.wrap,
.wraplinks a {
/* For template documentation */
.template-documentation {
/* Inline divs in ImageMaps (code borrowed from de.wiki) */
.imagemap-inline div {
/* Increase the height of the image upload box */
 height: 13em;
/* Minimum thumb width */
.thumbinner {
/* Makes the background of a framed image white instead of gray.
div.thumb .thumbimage {
/* The backgrounds for galleries. */
div#content .gallerybox div.thumb {
/* Put a chequered background behind images, only visible if they have transparency.
.gallerybox .thumb img {
/* But not on articles, user pages, portals or with opt-out. */
.ns-0 .gallerybox .thumb img,
.ns-2 .gallerybox .thumb img,
.ns-100 .gallerybox .thumb img,
.nochecker .gallerybox .thumb img {
/* Prevent floating boxes from overlapping any category listings,
 clear: both;
body.rtl #mw-articlefeedbackv5, body.rtl #mw-articlefeedback {
/* Selectively hide headers in WikiProject banners */
.wpbs-inner .wpb .wpb-header { display: block; } /* for IE */
.wpbs-inner .wpb .wpb-header { display: table-row; } /* for real browsers */
.wpbs-inner .wpb-outside { display: none; } /* hide things that should only display outside shells */
/* Styling for Abuse Filter tags */
.mw-tag-markers {
/* Hide stuff meant for accounts with special permissions. Made visible again in
.sysop-show,
.autoconfirmed-show {
.ve-ui-mwNoticesPopupTool-item .editnotice-redlink {
/* Remove bullets when there are multiple edit page warnings */
ul.permissions-errors > li {
ul.permissions-errors {
/* No linewrap on the labels of the login/signup page */
body.page-Special_UserLogin .mw-label label,
body.page-Special_UserLogin_signup .mw-label label {
/* Pie chart test: Transparent borders */
.transborder {
 border: solid #000001;
/* Styling for updated markers on watchlist, history and recent/related changes.
.updatedmarker {
/* Generic class for Times-based serif, texhtml class for inline math */
.times-serif,
span.texhtml {
span.texhtml {
span.texhtml span.texhtml {
/* Disable kerning, and enable tabular and lining display for digits.
.digits,
.texhtml {
/* Fix so <syntaxhighlight> tags and .css and .js pages get normal text size.
div.mw-geshi div,
div.mw-geshi div pre,
span.mw-geshi,
pre.source-css,
pre.source-javascript,
pre.source-lua {
/* Fix styling of transcluded prefindex tables */
table#mw-prefixindex-list-table,
table#mw-prefixindex-nav-table {
/* For portals, added 2011-12-07 -bv
.portal-column-left {
.portal-column-right {
.portal-column-left-wide {
.portal-column-right-narrow {
.portal-column-left-extra-wide {
.portal-column-right-extra-narrow {
@media only screen and (max-width: 800px) {
/* For announcements */
 background-image:url('//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e0/Tan-page-corner.png');
/* Tree style lists */
.treeview ul {
.treeview li {
.treeview li li {
.treeview li li.lastline {
.treeview li.emptyline > ul {
.treeview li.emptyline > ul > li:first-child {
/* hidden sortkey for tablesorter */
td .sortkey,
th .sortkey {
/* Make it possible to hide checkboxes in <inputbox> */
.inputbox-hidecheckboxes form .inputbox-element {
/* Hide charinsert base for those not using the gadget */
 display: none;
/* work-around for (Kaltura advertisement) */
.k-player .k-attribution {

</doc>
<doc id="18018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018" title="Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope">
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope

Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope is the first film in the "Star Wars" saga. The movie was released in 1977 and is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, action and drama.
Princess Leia Organa is a prisoner of the evil Empire. She was captured by Darth Vader, who is helping the Empire stop a rebellion, by using the Death Star. Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Han Solo work together to rescue her. They are helped by the droids (or robots) R2-D2 and C-3PO. With the princess, they try to stop the Empire and bring peace and happiness to the galaxy.

</doc>
<doc id="18021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18021" title="Saint Kitts and Nevis">
Saint Kitts and Nevis

The Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis (, also known as the Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis), is a federal nation made up of two small islands in the Caribbean Sea. It is the smallest independent country in the Western Hemisphere.
The capital city is Basseterre. It is on the main island of St Kitts. The island of Nevis has some rights of self-government and two seats in the federal parliament.
St Kitts and Nevis is about one-third of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago.
The headquarters of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank is in St Kitts. That bank controls the East Caribbean dollar.
The two islands were part of the Leeward Islands Colony from 1871 to 1956, and of the West Indies Federation from 1958 to 1962.
The Islands, plus Anguilla, got limited self-government in 1967. Anguilla objected and the Metropolitan Police were sent there in 1968 to stop rioting. Until 19 December 1980 the official name of St Kitts and Nevis was Saint Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla.
St Kitts and Nevis became an independent Commonwealth realm in 1983, Anguilla has stayed a British overseas territory.
In 1970 a movement to make Nevis separate from St Kitts started.
In 1983 the constitution set up a 15 member National Assembly. The Assembly is unicameral, that is, it only has one chamber. 3 members of the Assembly are appointed by the Governor General, on the advice of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. The other members are elected. If the Speaker decides to stand for re-election he is automatically elected, without a contest.
Nevis is responsible for its own internal affairs.
There is an eight member Nevis Island Assembly, plus and Island administration, of at least two members, headed by the premier.
The country has two main islands, Saint Kitts and Nevis. The highest peak, at 1,156 metres, is Mount Liamuiga. There is also a smaller island named Booby Island. No one lives on Booby Island.
The islands are of volcanic origin. There are large central peaks covered in tropical rainforest. People do not live on the steeper slopes leading to these peaks. Most of the people on both islands live closer to the sea. There are many rivers coming from the mountains of both islands. These give fresh water to the people. St. Kitts also has one small lake.
The federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis is divided into fourteen parishes. There are nine divisions on Saint Kitts and five on Nevis.
These are some of the more important cities and towns in Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Cricket is common in Saint Kitts and Nevis. Top players go to the West Indies cricket team. The late Runako Morton was from Nevis. Saint Kitts and Nevis is the smallest country on Earth to ever host a World Cup event. It was one of the host venues of the 2007 Cricket World Cup.
The St. Kitts and Nevis national football team, also known as the "Sugar Boyz", has had some international success. They went to the semifinal round of qualification for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in the CONCACAF region. Led by Glence Glasgow they defeated U.S. Virgin Islands and Barbados. They then lost to Mexico, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago.
The St. Kitts and Nevis Billiard Federation, SKNBF, is the governing body for cue sports across the two islands. 
Kim Collins is the country's best known track and field athlete. He has won gold medals in the 100 metres at both the World Championships in Athletics and Commonwealth Games. At the 2000 Sydney Olympics he was the country's first athlete to reach an Olympic final. He and three other athletes represented St. Kitts and Nevis at the 2008 Summer Olympics. The four by one hundred metre relay team won a bronze medal in the 2011 world championships.
American writer and former figure skater and triathlete Kathryn Bertine was given dual citizenship. She tried to qualify for the 2008 Summer Olympics representing St. Kitts and Nevis in women's cycling. She did not make enough points to go the Olympics.
St. Kitts and Nevis had two athletes ride in the time trial at the 2010 UCI Road World Championships. Athletes included Reginald Douglas and James Weekes.

</doc>
<doc id="18022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18022" title="Danish language">
Danish language

Danish is the Germanic language spoken in Denmark, the Faroe Islands, and parts of Greenland and Germany (Southern Schleswig). Around 5.5 million people speak Danish. It is used as a second language in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Danish people, or "Danes", call their language "dansk".
Here are some simple words in Danish:
 

</doc>
<doc id="18023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18023" title="Niger">
Niger

Niger is a country in western Africa. The capital is Niamey, and the official language is French. It is surrounded by Algeria and Libya to the north, Chad to the east, Nigeria and Benin to the south, and Burkina Faso and Mali to the west. Niger is landlocked, meaning it has no coastline. Niger gets its name from the Niger River.
The Mali Empire and the Songhai Empire both had land in what is now Niger. Later France controlled the land that is now Niger. Niger has a population, or the number of people living in an area, of 15,306,252 and an area of 1,267,000 square kilometres. Much of Niger is desert.
After a military coup in 2010, Niger is now a democratic, multi-party state. Most of the people live in rural areas, and have little access to advanced education.
Niger is on the border between the Sahara and Sub-Saharan regions. Niger's area is of which is water. It is the world's twenty-second largest country. Niger borders seven countries. The longest border is with Nigeria to the south.
The lowest point is the Niger River, with an elevation of . The highest point is Mont Idoukal-n-Taghès in the Aïr Mountains at .
This table shows cities with a population over 10,000, according to 2001 census.
Niger's subtropical climate is mainly very hot and dry. Much of it is covered by desert. In the extreme south there is a tropical climate on the edges of the Niger River basin. The land is mostly desert plains and sand dunes. There is flat to rolling savanna in the south and hills in the north.
The literacy rate (the amount of the adult population who can read or write) of Niger is among the lowest in the world. In 2005 it was estimated to be only 28.7% (42.9% male and 15.1% female). Primary education in Niger is required for six years. The primary school enrollment and attendance rates are low, particularly for girls. Children are often made to work rather than attend school. This is particularly true during planting or harvest periods.

</doc>
<doc id="18026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18026" title="Zealand">
Zealand

Zealand is an island of Denmark. It is the biggest island. Over two million people live on it. Copenhagen, the capital city of Denmark, is on the island.

</doc>
<doc id="18029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18029" title="Brunei">
Brunei

Brunei (officially called State of Brunei, Abode of Peace) is a country in Southeast Asia. It is north of Malaysia (Borneo). The country is rather landlocked by Malaysia. To the north is the South China Sea and the Philippines to the northeast. The capital of Brunei is Bandar Seri Begawan. The country has a small area and not many people live there. The leader of the country is the Sultan of Brunei. He is one of the richest people in the world, because he owns a lot of oil. The main religion in Brunei is Islam there are also many people who follow Buddhism or Animism. The native languages of Brunei is Malay and English as second language.
From the 14th to the 16th centuries Brunei Darussalam was the seat of a powerful sultanate extending over Sabah, Sarawak and the southern Philippines. Thus, the current Sultan represents one of the oldest continuously ruling dynasties in the world. By the 19th century, the Brunei Darussalam Empire had been whittled away by wars, piracy and the colonial expansion of European powers.
In 1847, the sultan ended a treaty with Great Britain and in 1888 Brunei Darussalam officially became a British protectorate. In 1906, the Residential System was established in Brunei Darussalam. A British Resident was nominated as a representative of the British government to advise the sultan in all matters except Malay customs, traditions and Islamic religion.
The 1959 Agreement established a written constitution which gave Brunei Darussalam internal self-government. In 1971, the agreement was amended and revised to assert full internal independence except defence and external affairs.
In 1967 His Highness Sultan Haji Sir Muda Omar Ali Saifuddien abdicated in favour of his son Pengiran Muda Mahkota Hassanal Bolkiah. On January 1, 1984 Brunei Darussalam resumed full independence and the Sultan took office as Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Home Affairs Minister, presiding over a cabinet of six. In October 1986, the cabinet was expanded to 11 members, with His Majesty relinquishing the portfolios of Finance and Home Affairs and taking over the Defence portfolio which his late father had held since 1984. In 1988 another reshuffle brought about the elevation of the deputy minister to a full minister and the creation of the Ministry of Industry and Primary Resources designed to boost the country's development.
In spite of the sizable non-Muslim population (about 1/3 of the population) and criticism by the international community, the Sultan still announced Brunei's adoption of Sharia law in 2013 to fully enforce on the Muslim majority and partially enforce on non-Muslims. Is is expected to take full effect in 2016 after 3 phases, and had begun partial enforcement in its first phase in 2014. It is the first country in East and Southeast Asia to practice Sharia law.
Officially, there are no places in Brunei that have "city" status. Some of the important places are:
Given that Brunei is an oil-rich country, Brunei gets most of its income from selling natural resources.
Brunei uses the Brunei Ringgit to trade. However, the Singapore dollar can be used here as both currencies are of the same value.

</doc>
<doc id="18031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18031" title="Taka">
Taka

The Taka is the currency of Bangladesh. The most commonly used symbol for the Taka is Tk and ৳. This is used on receipts while purchasing goods and services. One taka is divided into 100 poisha.
In Bengali, the word "taka" is also used to mean any money, currency, or notes. 
Bangladesh Bank, the central bank of the country, prints the currency, except for one taka and two taka notes, which are made by the Ministry of Finance. 

</doc>
<doc id="18032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18032" title="Bogotá">
Bogotá

Bogota is the capital (city) of Colombia. In 2009 more than 7 million people live in Bogota which is the largest city in Colombia. It is about 2,640 meters above sea level, on top a plateau (a mountain with a flat top). This makes it the third highest capital in the world. With many universities and libraries, Bogotá has become known as "The Athens of South America".The weather is usually nice during the day and cool at night. It has a series of bike paths (trails that are made for bikes) that wind through the city. It has many recreational and amusement parks open to the public. The current mayor is Enrique Penalosa.
Originally, Native Americans called Muisca lived in the area. Then, in 1538, Gonzalo Jimenes de Quezada, a Spanish conqueror, founded Bogota. Bogota became a center of trade, art, and education. Some of the oldest universities in the Americas are in Bogota. After Independence from Spain, Bogota became the capital of Gran Colombia in 1819. 
Bogota has had extremely awful moments. In 1948, a presidential candidate, Jorge Eliécer Gaitán, was murdered while doing a speech in front of hundreds of persons. This tragic moment brought with it terrible consequences: one of the most remembered one is the "Bogotazo". The "Bogotazo" started as a political party war, the blue party, self named the "conservatives", began to hunt and kill every single member of the red party, the "liberals". Such a sadistic event had not been seen in the history of Colombia since the independence war of this very country. Seeing this terrible unfair situation, the remaining blue party members decided to create the "Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia" (FARC); however, this group was ironically created to protect the oppressed people from their oppressors. Nowadays, this group is known as terrorists and murderers;nevertheless, Colombia's capital city, Bogota, has not being attacked in the last few years.

</doc>
<doc id="18033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18033" title="Aymara people">
Aymara people

The Aymara are members of a tribe of Native Americans that live in Bolivia and Peru. They are native to the area around Lake Titicaca. They speak the Aymara language. They call themselves Aymaras. 
The president of Bolivia, Evo Morales, is Aymara.
The many-colored flag of the tribe is called the Wiphala.

</doc>
<doc id="18034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18034" title="Perihelion">
Perihelion

The perihelion is the point in the orbit of a planet, asteroid or comet where[& when] it is nearest to the sun. It is the opposite of aphelion, which is where [& when] the orbit of the object is farthest from the sun.
The word perihelion stems from the Greek words "peri," meaning near, and "Helios," meaning the Greek god of the sun. (The similar word, perigee, refers to the nearest point in some object's orbit of earth.)
All planets, comets and asteroids in our solar system have approximately elliptical (a kind of non-circular) orbits (any single revolution of a body around the sun is only approximately elliptical, because the phenomenon known as precession of the perihelion prevents the orbit from being a simple closed curve such as an ellipse). Thus, they all have a closest and a farthest point from the sun: a perihelion and an aphelion. Orbital eccentricity measures the flatness of the orbit.
Earth comes closest to the sun every year around January 3. It is farthest from the sun every year around July 4. The difference in distance between Earth's nearest point to the sun in January and farthest point from the sun in July is 3.1 million miles (5 million kilometers). Earth is about 91.4 million miles (147.1 million kilometers) from the sun in early January, in contrast to about 94.5 million miles (152 million kilometers) in early July.
When Earth is closest to the sun, it is winter in the northern hemisphere and summer in the southern hemisphere. Thus it is possible to see that Earth's distance from the sun does not noticeably cause the seasons to change; the relatively minor effects of differences in distance is somewhat masked by the mainly oceanic southern hemisphere vs the half- continental northern hemisphere. Therefore, the Earth's seasons come and go mainly because Earth does not rotate with its axis exactly upright with respect to the plane of our world’s orbit around the sun. Earth's axial tilt is 23.5 degrees. This puts the Sun farther south in December and January, so the north has winter and the south has summer. Thus winter falls on that part of the globe where sunlight strikes least directly. Summer falls on that part of the globe where sunlight strikes most directly.

</doc>
<doc id="18035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18035" title="Johnston Atoll">
Johnston Atoll

The island is named after Captain James Johnston, who discovered it in 1807. The island was mined for guano until 1890. After that, it was used as an army base.

</doc>
<doc id="18036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18036" title="Llama">
Llama

A Llama ("Lama glama") is a mammal of the "Camelidae" family. It is from South America, the Andes Mountains of Peru and Ecuador.
Sometimes the name "llama" is used for all four South American camelids.
The llama was domesticated about 5000 years ago. It was and is used for carrying things, and for wool. The llama was very important for the Incan people. Even today, llamas are used for similar reasons, but will more commonly be used as domesticated pets. The llama's close relative is the alpaca, who is a more demure, petite animal in comparison to the llama. Llamas have three related cousins - the alpaca, the guanaco, and the vicuña. The llama is the national symbol of Bolivia.
Llamas spit, and travel together. Llamas also have a high content of hemoglobin which causes there blood cells to be oval and not circular.

</doc>
<doc id="18039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18039" title="1840s">
1840s


</doc>
<doc id="18041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18041" title="Mexican–American War">
Mexican–American War

The Mexican–American War took place between 1846 and 1848 between the United States of America and Mexico.
When Mexico got independence from Spain in 1821, Texas was part of Mexico. Americans and other settlers came into Texas when Mexico allowed non-Spanish settlers to settle there. After many settlers came to Texas, disputes led to the Texas Revolution in which in 1836 Texas became independent. Mexico refused to recognize the Republic of Texas as an independent country. Texas soon asked to become a state of the United States. Years later, in 1845, the US annexed Texas. But Mexico still did not recognize its independence or recognize the annexation by the U.S. The United States offered to buy from Mexico the land extending from Texas to the Pacific Ocean, but Mexico wanted to keep that vast area. In 1846, a dispute over the border between Texas and Mexico resulted in armed conflict, and the Mexican–American War began.
But the United States moved quickly to annex Texas after the 1844 election of James K. Polk. In his campaign, Polk had called for the "re-annexation" of Texas and the "re-occupation" of the Oregon Territory. Polk also wanted California and the rest of what is now the Southwestern United States. After offering to buy the territory, he moved U.S. troops into a place that Mexico said was not in Texas, but rather part of the Mexican state of Coahuila. The Mexican army attacked them.
The main causes of the war then was the westward expansion of the United States]]. All through the 19th century Americans believed it was their right to expand westward. At the time they believed they could conquer the people already living on the land and take it for the United States. Southerners wanted to see more slave states.
Antonio López de Santa Anna became President again, and many Mexicans hated him and did not want to follow him into war. Many Americans, including young Abraham Lincoln, also disliked the war.
In addition to small units sent to California and New Mexico, the United States sent two major armies into Mexico under the commands of General Winfield Scott and future President of the United States General Zachary Taylor.
After the U.S. had entered Mexico, the Mexican general Antonio López de Santa Anna took command of the Mexican soldiers in early 1847. The U.S. forces fought Santa Anna near Monterrey and Buena Vista. After Buena Vista, the Mexican army had many problems, including starvation, disease, and desertion. The Mexican government was unstable. In March 1847, Scott landed at Veracruz. His force included future Civil War generals Robert E. Lee, Ulysses S. Grant, Stonewall Jackson and George G. Meade, as well as Commodore Perry. Scott took Puebla in May, and took Mexico City in September after the battle of Battle of Chapultepec.
When American soldiers came to California, the Bear Flag Revolt was happening. Some Californians were attempting to leave Mexico and form their own country, as Texas had done. In July and August 1846, American soldiers captured Monterey, Yerba Buena and Los Angeles. After a counterattack by the "Californios", the Americans had taken much of California by 1847. The Mexican governor of California, Pio Pico, left the state.
The United States won the war and Mexico signed the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848. The treaty gave the U.S. lands that would become the states of Arizona, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, southwestern Colorado, and southwestern Wyoming. Mexico received 15 million dollars and gave up its claims to Texas.
The slavery debate in the United States became more intense with the addition of the new territory and the question of whether slavery would be legal in these new territories. Also, many of the officers who would lead troops in the American Civil War fought in the war and would use their experiences in the coming Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="18042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18042" title="European Revolutions of 1848">
European Revolutions of 1848

The European Revolutions of 1848 were a series of revolts in Europe. In some places they are called Spring of Nations or the Year of Revolution.
These revolutions started in January with a Palermo republican uprising. The larger French Revolution of 1848 in February was followed in March by several other revolutions amongst them the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states. In Ireland, the rebellions began because of famine conditions in their country.
People in the various countries tried to take over their governments.

</doc>
<doc id="18043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18043" title="Edvard Grieg">
Edvard Grieg

Edvard Grieg (born 15 June 1843 Bergen, Norway; died 4 September 1907) was a Norwegian composer and pianist who composed in the Romantic period. He is Norway’s most famous composer. He is best known for his Piano Concerto in A minor and for his incidental music to Henrik Ibsen's play "Peer Gynt", which includes movements called "Aubade" and "In the Hall of the Mountain King". He wrote many pieces for piano, including a collection of 66 pieces called "Lyric Pieces". He also wrote songs to Norwegian and to German words.
Grieg was born in Bergen on 15 June 1843. His ancestors were Scottish people who had moved to Norway around 1770. The original family name was spelt "Greig".
Grieg came from a musical home. His mother was his first piano teacher. He went to several schools, and started composing when he was young. He used to take his compositions to school, but the teacher did not show much interest in them.
In the summer of 1858 Grieg met the great Norwegian violinist Ole Bull, who was a friend of the family, and whose brother was married to Grieg's aunt. Bull noticed the 15-year-old boy's talent and persuaded his parents to let him go to Leipzig in Germany to study music.
Grieg enrolled in the conservatory, concentrating on the piano, and enjoyed all the concerts and recitals given in Leipzig. He did not like the discipline of the conservatory course of study, but he still got very good grades. The first piano recital he gave was in Sweden. In 1862 he finished his studies in Leipzig and went back to Bergen where he gave another recital.
In 1863 Grieg went to Copenhagen, Denmark, and stayed there for three years. He met the Danish composers J. P. E. Hartman, and Niels Gade. Gade told him to go and write a symphony. Grieg did not feel happy writing a long symphony although he did try. He also met the Norwegian composer Rikard Nordraak who had composed the Norwegian national anthem. Nordraak showed Grieg how wonderful Norwegian folk music was. Grieg had hardly heard any Norwegian folk music until then. When Nordraak died, Grieg composed a funeral march in his honour.
On 11 June 1867, Grieg married his first cousin Nina. The next year their only child, Alexandra, was born. The following summer, Grieg wrote his Piano Concerto in A minor while on holiday in Denmark. Edmund Neupert gave the concerto its first performance on 3 April 1869 in the Casino Theater in Copenhagen. Grieg himself was unable to be there because he was conducting in Christiana (now called “Oslo”).
In the summer of 1869, Grieg's daughter Alexandra became ill and died, at the age of 13 months.
In 1870, he met Franz Liszt in Rome. Liszt had made it possible for Grieg to get a travel grant. They played Grieg's Violin Sonata No. 1 together, which Liszt liked very much. On a second visit, in April, Grieg brought with him the manuscript of his Piano Concerto which Liszt played by sight. Liszt gave him some advice about the orchestration.
Grieg spent most of his time conducting and playing the piano in concerts. He often travelled, and in 1876 he went to Bayreuth to hear the first performance of Wagner’s Ring cycle. He wrote a review of the operas for a Norwegian newspaper.
In 1876, Ibsen asked Grieg to write some incidental music for the first performance of the play he had written about the Norwegian hero Peer Gynt. Many of the pieces from this work became very popular. They are played by orchestras as well as in arrangements for piano or for piano duet.
In 1883 he and wife parted for a while, although friends managed to persuade the couple to come together again and they spent four months in Rome. They built a house called Troldhaugen in Bergen, with a view of the fjord. They moved into the house in 1885 and Grieg lived there for the rest of his life. They continued to travel and give concerts. Nina had a good voice and sang her husband’s songs. Grieg only performed his own works at concerts. During his last years he received many honours.
In his later life Grieg became famous, although never rich. The Norwegian government gave him a pension. Grieg made some recordings of his piano pieces. These are some of the very first gramophone recordings that were made. The sound is not very good, but they show that Grieg was an excellent pianist. He also recorded music rolls on a pianola.
Edvard Grieg died in the autumn of 1907, aged 64, after a long illness. He had suffered from respiratory problems ever since he was very ill in 1860 as a student in Leipzig. At his funeral thousands of people went out on the streets of his home town to honour him. Following his wish, his own funeral march for Rikard Nordraak was played, as well as the funeral march by Frederic Chopin. His and his wife's ashes are buried in a mountain crypt near his house, Troldhaugen.
Grieg was often inspired by Norwegian folk music. This can be heard in his songs and some of his instrumental music. His chamber music includes 3 violin sonatas and a cello sonata as well as a piano sonata and many shorter piano pieces. However, he has become very well known all over the world through his Piano Concerto and his music for "Peer Gynt". Another popular work is his "Holberg Suite" which was originally written for the piano but later arranged for string orchestra.
The famous opening of Grieg’s Piano Concerto featured in a comedy sketch by Morecambe and Wise in the 1970s. The conductor André Previn was their special guest in the sketch which has become a classic.

</doc>
<doc id="18044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18044" title="Palmyra Atoll">
Palmyra Atoll

Palmyra Atoll is an island in the North Pacific Ocean. No one lives there.but 4 to 20 people used this island. It is managed as a nature reserve by the United States. It is known as the "Palmyra Atoll National Wildlife Refuge". 
In 2005, a team of scientists from all over the world started to build a research station on the island. They wanted to study the environment of the island.

</doc>
<doc id="18045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18045" title="Kingman Reef">
Kingman Reef

Kingman Reef is a coral reef in the North Pacific Ocean, owned by the United States. 
It is the farthest north of the Northern Line Islands. It is only sometimes above water. 
Palmyra Atoll is the other U.S. territory in the Northern Line Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="18046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18046" title="Jarvis Island">
Jarvis Island

Jarvis Island (; formerly known as Bunker Island) is an uninhabited island owned by the United States. The small island is a part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands, a group of mostly uninhabited islands.
Jarvis Island was officially made part of the United States in 1858. People used to mine guano there, but they then abandoned it. The United States treats it as a nature reserve. 
Located 25 miles south of the equator, Jarvis Island, is an uninhabited coral island located in the South Pacific Ocean. Jarvis has no known natural freshwater sources, and very little rain. This creates a very bleak, flat landscape with plants no larger than shrubs. Jarvis Island has no ports or docks, other than a reef the guano miners blew up in order for the cargo boats to be able to drop anchor. Its grass, vines and low-growing bushes are primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for wildlife. The island has a tropical desert climate, with high temperatures in the day, constant wind, and a very hot sun. There is no evidence that the island has ever supported a native human population, but on August 30, 1913, the Amaranth was carrying a cargo of coal from Newcastle, New South Wales, to San Francisco when it crashed on Jarvis' southern shore. Ruins of ten wooden buildings, and a two-story house among them, could still be seen by the "Amaranth" crew, who left Jarvis aboard two lifeboats. Also, Settlers were moved to Jarvis Island in 1935 to maintain a weather station and plan a landing field. A settlement called Millersville was established on the west coast of the island because of it was the highest elevation. The Japanese shelled the island in 1942 and the men living on Jarvis were evacuated soon afterward. The United States claimed possession of Jarvis under the Guano Islands Act of 1856. The Act gave American citizens the right to claim any unclaimed, uninhabited islands for the purpose of mining guano. Because at the time guano was a very valuable asset used for fertilizer.

</doc>
<doc id="18047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18047" title="Robert E. Lee">
Robert E. Lee

Robert Edward Lee (January 19, 1807 – October 12, 1870) was the General-in-chief of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. He led the Army of Northern Virginia in the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War. Lee is considered one of America's greatest generals. He started out as an engineer but then moved up the ranks. Before the Civil War, Lee was an officer in the Mexican-American War. He was also head of West Point. As a colonel in the United States Army he led a battalion of marines to put down the rebellion at Harpers Ferry Armory and captured their leader, John Brown.
Lee was born at Stratford Hall in Westmoreland County, Virginia, on January 19, 1807. His parents were American Revolutionary War General and Governor of Virginia, Henry "Light Horse Harry" Lee, and his wife, Anne Carter Lee. In 1818, Lee's father died in the West Indies without ever seeing his son again. Robert was raised by his mother in Alexandria, Virginia.
Lee and George Washington were both descendants of Augustine Warner, Sr. and his wife, Mary Towneley Warner. Lee was descended through their daughter, Sarah. Washington was descended through their son, Augustine, Jr. Lee and Washington were third cousins, twice removed.
Lee attended Eastern View, a school in Fauquier County, Virginia. He may have attended schools in Shirley, Virginia, and in Alexandria, Virginia. His mother instructed him in the Episcopalian faith. Lee attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, and graduated second in the class of 1829.
On June 30, 1831, Lee married Mary Custis at Arlington House. She was the granddaughter of George Washington's stepson, John Parke Custis. They made their home at Arlington House. They had seven children.
Lee fought in the Mexican–American War under General Winfield Scott as a captain. Later, Scott wrote about Lee calling him "the very best soldier I ever saw in the field." After the war, Lee helped the army build forts. In 1855, Lee became a lieutenant colonel, and joined a cavalry regiment. As a Colonel, Lee was called on to stop the "slave rebellion", otherwise known as John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry. Brown's raid was ended in less than an hour by Lee.
Lee inherited a number of slaves with Arlington House. He proved not to be a very good slave master. He tried kindness and refused to use torture. But the slaves knew their freedom had been granted them in the will and refused to work. Lee wanted to grant them their freedom but needed them to help him see out the work at Arlington House. Personally, Lee hated slavery calling it an "evil" to both blacks and whites. But he knew it had to be ended gradually or the economy of the South would wikt:collapse. But Lee did agree with other Southerners thinking that blacks were inferior. He believed God would work out the problem in his own time. Lee, like Thomas Jefferson had mixed feelings about slavery. 
The election of Abraham Lincoln in 1868 caused several states to secede in protest. This put Lee in a difficult position. The newly formed Confederate States of America offered Lee the rank of brigadier general. Lee did not respond to the offer. Winfield Scott offered him command of the army of U.S. volunteers. Between April 12–14, 1861, U.S. troops were bombarded at Fort Sumter at Charleston, South Carolina. The same day Virginia seceded from the Union. Lee did not support secession but he could not fight against his own state of Virginia. Lee resigned his U.S. Army commission on April 22, 1861, at Arlington House. He told his friends that he would not be a part of an invasion of the South. Several days later he accepted command of all Virginia forces.
At first, Lee did not command any soldiers in battle. Instead, he helped Confederate president Jefferson Davis make military decisions. In 1862, he became the commander of the Army of Northern Virginia. He would lead the army for the rest of the war. He would win many battles, even though the Union army in the battles had more men. At the Battle of Gettysburg, he tried to invade the Union in order to end the war. But his army was defeated and he had to retreat back into Virginia.
During 1864 and 1865, Lee fought Union general Ulysses S. Grant in Virginia. During the end of 1864 and the beginning of 1865, Lee and Grant fought near Richmond, Virginia in a series of battles called the Siege of Petersburg. In April 1865, Grant forced Lee to retreat from Richmond. After a series of battles, Grant surrounded Lee near Appomattox Courthouse and forced Lee to surrender. Before he surrendered, he said "I would rather die a thousand deaths than surrender".
President Andrew Johnson issued a proclamation granting amnesty and pardon to those Confederates who were a part of the rebellion against the United States. It contained 14 exempted classes and members of these groups had to make an application to the President of the United States asking for a pardon. Lee sent an application to General Grant. On June 13, 1865, Lee wrote to President Johnson: 
On October 2, 1865, Lee became president of Washington College in Virginia. That same day Lee signed his Amnisty Oath as required by President Johnson. But Lee was not pardoned and his citizenship was not restored.
His amnesty oath was found over a hundred years later in the National Archives. It appears United States Secretary of State William H. Seward had given the application to a friend to keep as a souvenir. The State Department had simply ignored Lee's application and it was never granted. In a 1975 Joint resolution by the United States Congress, Lee's rights as a citizen were restored with the effective date of June 13, 1865. The act was signed into law by President Gerald R. Ford on August 5, 1975.
Lee had a stroke on September 28, 1870 and died on October 12, 1870. Washington College changed its name to Washington and Lee University in Lee's honor. Lee's birthday is celebrated in several southern states as a holiday.

</doc>
<doc id="18048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048" title="1830s">
1830s


</doc>
<doc id="18049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18049" title="1820s">
1820s


</doc>
<doc id="18050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18050" title="1819">
1819


</doc>
<doc id="18052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18052" title="Isaiah">
Isaiah

Isaiah was a prophet of God in Islam, Christianity and Bahá'í. He lived from about 740 to 681 BC. The name "Isaiah" means "the Lord is salvation" in the Hebrew language. 
Isaiah is also the name of a book in the Old Testament of the Bible, which tells the story of the Israelites in Isaiah's time. According to Christianity, Isaiah predicted in this book, the birth and then death of Jesus, hundreds of years before it actually happened. Judaism does not agree with that interpretation.
Isaiah was known to be the Shakespeare of the Bible due to his good education and the quality of the passages he wrote. He was cut in half by King Manasseh which led to his gruesome death. Most of Isaiah's Bible passages begin with 'God's message to'.

</doc>
<doc id="18056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18056" title="Leopold Poetsch">
Leopold Poetsch

Leopold Poetsch was a German antiSemitic professor and a high school teacher of Adolf Hitler who influenced the future leader's later views. 
Poetsch came from the southern German border area. There, political fights between Slavs and ethnic Germans angered him and made him one who was for the Pan-German movement. He started to teach in Maribor, Slovenia and later moved to Linz, Austria to teach history.
Hitler was very interested in what Poetsch said. Poetsch hated the Habsburgs and argued that all ethnic Germans should be united by a single government. He said that the Aryan race was stronger, in better health, and more fit to rule than all other people. Poetsch said that Jews and Slavs were what he called "inferior races". (This view was held a lot in Germany after World War I.)
Hitler began reading an anti-Semitic newspaper in his area. In his later years, Hitler spoke of Poetsch as a "great man." As dictator of Germany, Hitler tried to get all German-speaking people together and persecuted Slavs, Jews, Gypsies, and others. Hitler later tried to kill them all in the "Final Solution."

</doc>
<doc id="18059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18059" title="Armenian Genocide">
Armenian Genocide

The Armenian Genocide was the forcible deportation and massacring of Armenians during the government of the Young Turks from 1915 to 1917 in the Ottoman Empire.
In November 1914, the Ottoman Empire went into the World War I on the side of the Central Powers. İsmail Enver, who was then the Minister of War, launched a disastrous military campaign against Russian forces in the Caucasus in hopes of capturing the city of Baku. His forces were routed at the Battle of Sarikamis, and many more of his men froze to death.
Returning to Istanbul, Enver largely blamed the Armenians living in the region for actively siding with the Russians. In 1914, the Ottoman Empire's "War Office" had already begun a propaganda drive to present Armenians living in the Ottoman Empire as a liability and threat to the country's security. An Ottoman naval officer in the War Office described the planning:
The Ottoman government, moving quickly, arrested an estimated 250 Armenian intellectuals on the night of 24 April 1915.
The Turkish massacres of Armenians in 1894, 1895, 1896, and 1909 were still fresh in their minds.
Guenter Lewy claims in his book,"The Armenian Massacres in Ottoman Turkey: A Disputed Genocide", that there is not enough evidence of the Young Turk regime organizing the killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire. 
According to Lewy, even though their fate in World War I proved tragic, it was not a ‘‘real’’ genocide, because ‘‘there were no centrally organized and state-sponsored premeditation and genocidal intention‘‘.
A major obstacle for wider recognition of the genocide in the world is the official position of Turkey, which they state that there was no systematic attempt to annihilate the Armenian population and the 1915 massacres were made because of the Tehcir Law and WW1. In December 2008 a group of Turkish scholars launched an online petition for people who wanted to apologize for what happened. The people who created the petition didn’t use the word “genocide” instead they used the word “the Great Catastrophe” regarding the event. Many Turks viewed the Armenians as having been a threat to the Ottoman Empire in a time of war, arguing that people of various ethnicities were killed during the violence. Turkey and their leaders fear that recognizing the word “genocide” could likely cost the considerable sums of money in reparations, as well as public embarrassment.

</doc>
<doc id="18060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18060" title="Prime Minister of the United Kingdom">
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom

The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is the highest elected office in the United Kingdom. The current Prime Minister is Theresa May, who succeeded David Cameron on 13 Jul 2016. 
The Prime Minister is the leader of the political party which wins most seats- spaces on the chairs in the house of Commons, after they are elected to tell other politicians about problems in their local area- in the House of Commons. Voters vote for their own local MP, not for the Prime Minister.
The first Prime Minister was Robert Walpole in the eighteenth century, but he was known as the First Lord of the Treasury. The first person to be officially called "Prime Minister" was Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman in 1905.
Other well-known prime ministers include Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair. The Prime ministers live in No.10 Downing Street while in office.

</doc>
<doc id="18061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18061" title="River Forth">
River Forth

The River Forth is a river in Scotland. It flows through the city of Edinburgh, and it flows into the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="18062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18062" title="Alejandro Toledo">
Alejandro Toledo

Alejandro Toledo is a former president of Peru. He won the 2001 election for President.
He is from the town of Chimbote in Ancash Region, Peru. He is married to Eliane Karp of Belgium.

</doc>
<doc id="18063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18063" title="Inuktitut">
Inuktitut

Inuktitut is a language of the Arctic, spoken by Inuits in Canada and in Greenland. Inuktitut is a very complex language. It is an official language in Nunavut and the Northwest Territories.
The Inuit write Inuktitut in two ways. One way to write Inuktitut is by using the Roman alphabet. The other way to write Inuktitut is by using an abugida, which is a kind of alphabet which has letters based on syllables.
The uses a small part of the Unified Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics, a set of letters made up for writing down many of the languages of the First Nations people in Canada.
Some words in English come from Inuktitut or another Inuit language. Among them are the words anorak, igloo, and kayak.

</doc>
<doc id="18064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18064" title="Fall Out Boy">
Fall Out Boy

Fall Out Boy (often shortened to FOB) is an alternative rock band, that make music, from Chicago, Illinois, USA. The members are Pete Wentz (bassist), Patrick Stump (vocals), Andy Hurley (drums), and Joe Trohman (guitar). They have written successful songs, including "Thnks fr the Mmrs", "Sugar, We're Goin' Down" and "Dance, Dance". Their music is mostly like the pop-punk style, or genre, of music. The band got the name "Fall Out Boy" from a character who appeared in one episode of The Simpsons. "Sugar, We're Goin' Down" was the first single from their album "From Under the Cork Tree". It has peaked at number eight on the "Billboard" charts. The second single was "Dance, Dance" which picked up major airplay in the U.S. The third single was "A Little Less Sixteen Candles, a Little More Touch Me." Their third album is "Infinity on High" and it had lots of success around the world. Two songs from the album were very popular across the world. They are "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" and "Thnks fr th Mmrs". The second song's title is "Thanks for the Memories" without the vowel letters, which is meant to look as if it were from a text message. The third single from "Infinity on High" is called "The Take Over, The Breaks Over". The fourth is "I'm Like a Lawyer With the Way I'm Always Trying to Get You Off (Me & You)". Their fourth album "Folie à Deux", was released on December 16, 2008. "I Don't Care" was the first song released from the album. In late 2009 the band took a rest. Patrick Stump went solo and released his debut album "Soul Punk" on October 18, 2011. His EP "Truant Wave" was released on February 22, 2011. Bassist Pete Wentz formed the electro-pop band Black Cards. Guitarist Joe Trohman and Andy Hurley formed a rock band The Damned Things with people from Anthrax and Every Time I Die.
Fall Out Boy came off hiatus in 2013, releasing a new single "My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light 'Em Up)" and an album "Save Rock and Roll", along with a supporting tour. They went on the Save Rock and Roll Arena Fall Tour September of 2013 with fellow rock band Panic! at the Disco in support of the album as well. In September 2014, they released a new single, called "Centuries".

</doc>
<doc id="18065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18065" title="Greek alphabet">
Greek alphabet

The modern Greek alphabet has 24 letters. It is used to write the Greek language.
The Greek alphabet is thought to be where all important European alphabets came from. Although the alphabet was borrowed from the Phoenician alphabet around the 10th century BC, there were many changes made to make it fit the Greek language. The main change was that some of the Phoenician letters that were for sounds not used in Greek were turned into vowels. The Phoenicians had written their alphabet without any vowels, so this change made writing a lot easier to read. This change was also better fit for Indo-European languages, which did not use consonant-based roots (meaning the word's central meaning is based on the consonant string) like those in Semitic languages such as Phoenician, Arabic, Hebrew, and Aramaic. Another change is that some new letters were invented for sounds that were in Greek but not in the Phoenician language. At first, Greek was written from right to left, the same as Phoenician, but after the 6th century BC, it was written from left to right. 
There were some differences in the early Greek alphabet depending on what part of the Greek world it was used in. The two main kinds were the eastern and western ones. But over time all Greeks started to use the same alphabet, especially after the Ionic alphabet of Miletus was officially adopted in Athens in 403 BC. A little later, the rest of Greece did the same, and by 350 BC, during the rule of Alexander the Great, almost all Greeks were using the same twenty-four letter Greek alphabet. 
Later, Aristophanes of Byzantium (c. 257185 BC), a Greek scholar and grammarian, invented the three diacritics (accent marks): acute, grave, and circumflex, to mark the tone or pitch of Greek words.
Although the Greek letters accurately represented all the main sounds of the Greek language early on, the sounds of the Greek language changed over time. Some of the vowel sounds began to sound similar to one another, aspirated voiceless stops became voiceless fricatives, and voiced stops became voiced fricatives. One can get an idea of how older Greek pronunciations sounded by looking at the Latin and English spellings of Greek loanwords like "philosopher", "Chimera", "Cyprus", and "Thessalonica" .
Another diacritic is a comma, usually above initial vowels. This signaled whether or not the sound of the letter 'H' was present. It is not available in our standard character-set. The diacritic is a comma placed above the vowel. If reversed it indicates the presence of an /h/ sound before a vowel, diphthong, or rho. Thus the Greek name "Ἕκτωρ" is pronounced Hektōr, not Ektor. Another example is ἥρως, pronounced hḗrōs ("hero").
In 1982, a new, simplified orthography, known as "monotonic", was adopted for official use in Modern Greek by the Greek state. It uses only a single accent mark, the acute accent. This marks the stressed syllable of polysyllabic words, that is, words with more than one syllable.

</doc>
<doc id="18068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18068" title="Good Charlotte">
Good Charlotte

Good Charlotte is an American punk music band. They are from Waldorf, Maryland. They have many popular songs, including "The Anthem", "Girls and Boys", and "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous". 
Their third album is unique. "The Chronicles of Life and Death" came in two different versions: the Life version, and the Death version. The only difference between them is the last song on the CD. The Life version has "Falling Away", and the Death version has "Meet My Maker".
The lead singer of the band is Joel Madden. His twin brother, Benji, is also in the band. But besides them, there is Billy (guitarist), Paul (bassist) and Dean (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="18069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18069" title="Battle Creek, Michigan">
Battle Creek, Michigan

Battle Creek is a city in western Michigan, USA. The headquarters of the Kellogg's cereal company is located in this city.

</doc>
<doc id="18072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18072" title="Grand Rapids, Michigan">
Grand Rapids, Michigan

Grand Rapids is a large city in western Michigan, United States. Former American president Gerald Ford grew up in Grand Rapids. Grand Rapids is also the birthplace of Amway and the Meijer store chain.
Grand Rapids is the county seat of Kent County. It is the second largest city in the state, after Detroit. The third largest is Warren.
The city has many attractions, including the Frederik Meijer Gardens and Sculpture Park and John Ball Park, which is a zoo. Grand Valley State University has a campus in downtown Grand Rapids.

</doc>
<doc id="18073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18073" title="Evo Morales">
Evo Morales

Juan Evo Morales Aima (born October 26, 1959) is the President of Bolivia. He is an Aymara Native American, and is politically a leftist. He is the founder and leader of the Movement toward Socialism (or MAS) political party. "Movimiento al Socialismo" is its Spanish name. On January 22, 2006, he became President of Bolivia. His party has declared that he is the first indigenous person to be president of Bolivia. Not everyone believes this to be true because of his mestizo heritage and similar backgrounds of several past Bolivian presidents. Nonetheless, he is likely the first "culturally" indigenous president of Bolivia.
Born in Oruro, Morales was a leader in a union of coca growers. Morales has said he does not like United States policy toward Latin America, criticizing the country's past failures to stand up for democracy, trade agreements which he feels have not helped Bolivia, and especially for the US's anti-drug policies. Coca is a component in cocaine, but is also an important part of Bolivian culture. Morales became well known for this, and he was elected to Congress.
Even though he was forced out of Congress in 2002, he became a very popular person in Bolivia, and won the country's presidential election in 2005. As president, he focused on economic changes that moved the country toward a more socialist economy, instead of a capitalist one. He also worked with other leaders in South America like Rafael Correa and Nestor Kirchner. Morales has been a popular president, and has been reelected in 2009 and 2014. During this time he has criticized both George W. Bush and Barack Obama and has had arguments with the United States.
In 2016, Morales wanted to pass a Constitutional amendment that would allow him to run for another term in 2019. Many people in Bolivia saw this as a power grab, and the amendment lost the election.

</doc>
<doc id="18076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18076" title="Lake Titicaca">
Lake Titicaca

Lake Titicaca is between Peru and Bolivia. It is the highest navigable lake in the world. It is the second largest in South America (after Maracaibo). It is at 3,809 meters above sea level. it covers around 8,300 km around the city of Macchu Picchu. 

</doc>
<doc id="18078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18078" title="Howland Island">
Howland Island

Howland Island is a small island in the north Pacific Ocean, just north of the Equator. It is owned by the United States.
Howland island is a very hot and sunny island with wind blowing almost all the time. It only rains every once in a while.
Howland Island is located at 0 48 N, 176 38 W.

</doc>
<doc id="18088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18088" title="2005 Atlantic hurricane season">
2005 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2005 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 2005 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. Tropical Storm Zeta began on December 30 and ended on January 6 which is after the November 30 end of the season. 
2005 broke many records set. There were 28 storms that were tropical storms and 15 that were hurricanes. For the first time ever storms were named by the Greek alphabet as the normal name list had been used up. The storm which caused the most damage was Hurricane Katrina, which hit New Orleans, USA, and killed over 1000 people. The strongest storm of the season was not Katrina, it was Hurricane Wilma. Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever in the Atlantic Ocean.
The storm formed near Honduras on June 8 and moved north. It came close to western Cuba on June 10 before entering the Gulf of Mexico. Arlene strengthened just below hurricane strength before making landfall on western Florida. The storm quickly weakened while moving inland, and later became an extratropical remnant on June 13.
Tropical Storm Bret was a weak tropical storm that formed as Tropical Depression Two in the western Gulf of Mexico, then quickly became Tropical Storm Bret. The storm made landfall in Tuxpan, Veracruz, Mexico the next morning. It dissipated on June 30. The storm cause 2 deaths and $9 million in damage.
Hurricane Cindy was a tropical cyclone that reached minimal hurricane strength for a very short time in the Gulf of Mexico during July and made landfall in Louisiana. It was the third named storm and first hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Cindy left 3 deaths and $320 million in damage.
Hurricane Dennis was very powerful hurricane that reached a peak of 150 mph. Hurricane Dennis moved mostly northwestward in its track. It made landfall in Grenada, and almost made landfall in Jamaica, and also made landfall in Cuba, and Florida (United States).
Hurricane Emily was the strongest and only known category 5 hurricane in July. It beat a record in strength set by Hurricane Dennis only 6 day before. Hurricane Emily was one of four category 5 hurricanes in 2005. Hurricane Emily caused about 6 deaths and $988 million in damage.
Tropical Storm Franklin formed north of the Bahamas on July 21 and moved steadily across the western Atlantic while coming close to Bermuda on July 26. Later, Franklin became an extratropical cyclone near Newfoundland, before being absorbed by another non-tropical system. Franklin caused no damages and killed no people while it stayed in the ocean during most of its life.
Tropical Storm Gert was a weak and short lived storm. Tropical Storm Gert formed in the Bay of Campeche on July 23. The storm made landfall in Mexico and dissipated on July 25.
Tropical Storm Harvey was a strong tropical storm that moved across the Atlantic Ocean from August 2 to August 8. Harvey caused no damages or deaths and was the eighth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Tropical Storm Harvey only affected Bermuda.
Hurricane Irene was a rather long lived storm (about 2 weeks). It took it a while to become a hurricane. The only affect from Irene was large waves. Irene caused no damage or deaths.
Tropical Storm Jose was a strong but very short lived storm. It quickly formed in the Bay of Campeche and made landfall in Mexico. Tropical Storm Jose dissipated the next day. Tropical Storm Jose caused 8 deaths and $45 million in damages.
Hurricane Katrina was a powerful category 5 hurricane. Katrina was the costliest hurricane in U.S. history. Katrina devastated the U.S. Gulf Coast, it especially devastated New Orleans, a city in Louisiana. It beat the old record from Hurricane Andrew. Katrina left $81.2 billion in damage and 1,836 deaths.
Tropical Storm Lee formed east of the Lesser Antilles as a tropical depression on August 28. On the next day, the depression weakened into a tropical low. The low then moved north and became stronger. It became a tropical storm for a short time on August 31. Lee quickly weakened again into a remnant low and was absorbed by a cold front on September 2.
Hurricane Maria was a major hurricane in September 2005. This storm was rare because it affected New Jersey, Iceland, Scotland, and Norway. Hurricane Maria caused 3 deaths and $3.1 million in damage.
Nate was a category 1 hurricane. Hurricane Nate also helped Hurricane Maria kill one person in Bermuda, and another in New Jersey. 
Hurricane Ophelia was a category 1 hurricane in September of 2005. It moved strangely just offshore of the United States. In all, Ophelia killed 3 people and caused $70 million in damage, mostly to North Carolina.
Hurricane Philippe was a category 1 hurricane that moved near land, but did not affect land. This was the third of five uses of a "P" name. The other were Pablo, Peter, Paloma, and Paula
Hurricane Rita was a powerful category 5 hurricane that started east of the Bahamas on September 26. It moved south of Florida and into the Gulf of Mexico. Rita became a category 5 hurricane very fast, then made landfall. Hurricane Rita made landfall as a category 3 hurricane in Louisiana, on September 24. By September 26, Rita had died over the U.S. The hurricane killed about 120 people and caused $10 billion in damage. This was only the second time that an "R" name was used in the Atlantic, the other was Roxanne.
Hurricane Stan was the sixth of the seven storms in 2005 to make landfall in Mexico. The storm caused $1 billion in Mexico and the Central American region. The exact number of people killed is unknown, but the guess is around 1,660, though it could be up to 2,000. 
Tammy was a tropical storm that only existed for a total of two days and brought minor damages to the southeastern United States. It peaked with 50 mph (85 km/h) just before making landfall on the northern Florida coast. Tammy formed from a strong non-tropical low on October 5 just off the Floridan coast. It moved north, peaking with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds just before making landfall on Atlantic Beach, Florida on October 6. Tammy died shortly later. Most of the damages were losses from FEMA that totaled up to $30 million. Tammy also killed 10 people. This was only the second time that a name starting with the letter "T" in the Atlantic Ocean. The other use was from Hurricane Tanya in 1995.
Hurricane Vince was a very rare hurricane. Hurricane Vince formed in the Atlantic where the water was too cold for a storm to form. It was only a hurricane for about 6 hours. The storm did something else rare, the storm made landfall in Spain. This was the first time that a "V" name had been used in the Atlantic.
Hurricane Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean. Hurricane Wilma lasted as a storm from mid to later October in 2005. Wilma left $28.8 billion in damage, mostly to Florida and the Yucatán Peninsula.
Tropical Storm Alpha was the first tropical storm to get a Greek alphabet name. It caused 43 people to die over Haiti, Dominican Republic, and the Bahamas. All of this happened before Hurricane Wilma caused it to die on October 24. 
Hurricane Beta was a category 3 hurricane in late October, 2005. It strengthened fast and made landfall in Nicaragua, before it died on October 31. Beta caused about 4 deaths and $3 million in damage.
Gamma was a tropical storm that started in the middle of November. It crossed the Caribeann Sea and died during this time. Tropical Storm Gamma reformed north of Honduras, before it again died. The tropical storm killed about 41 people in Honduras. 
Tropical Storm Delta was a strong tropical storm. It killed at least 7 people in the Canary Islands and caused about $360 million in damage. The remains were last seen over Morocco.
Epsilon was a rare December hurricane, the first since Hurricane Lili in 1984. Forecasters incorrectly guessed on how much time it would take for Epsilon to dissipate. Epsilon did not come any where near land.
Tropical Storm Zeta was the last storm of 2005. The storm formed on December 30 in cold waters of the Atlantic. Tropical Storm Zeta dissipated on January 6, 2006. It was only one of two storms to live in two different years (the other was Hurricane Alice which was in 1954 and 1955). The storm did not affect land or cause any deaths or damage.
There were also four storms in and around the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season that were not given any names: Tropical Depression Ten(10), Tropical Depression Nineteen(19), Subtropical Depression Twenty-two(22), and a subtropical storm that was not found until after it had happened. A subtropical cyclone is a storm that is not quite a tropical cyclone, but is more tropical than an extratropical cyclone.
In the spring of 2006, Hurricane Dennis, Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Stan, and Hurricane Wilma were retired and replaced by Don, Katia, Rina, Sean and Whitney in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="18089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18089" title="Christian calendar">
Christian calendar

A Christian calendar can be any calendar used by various Christian Churches for the Church year, called "liturgical year". For example, it can be used to find out what day Easter will be on, even though it is not the same in every Church.
The church year is divided into seasons like Lent, Easter, Pentecost, Advent and Christmas, with other weeks being seen as ordinary time.
The Gregorian calendar, named after Pope Gregory XIII, is now a civil calendar that is used in many countries around the world.
Catholic, Anglican and Orthodox Christians also celebrate Saint's days - here is a Catholic list

</doc>
<doc id="18090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18090" title="Puberty">
Puberty

Puberty is what happens in children's bodies that changes them into adults. After puberty, people are able to make children. A girl who has gone through puberty can become pregnant and have a baby. At puberty, a boy's body begins making sperm and he starts to be able to ejaculate, which is semen coming out from his penis when he is sexually excited. If he has sexual intercourse (sex) with a girl, he can make her pregnant. 
Puberty is started by hormones, which are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. Today, on average, girls start puberty at age 10 or 11, and boys at age 11 or 12. However, people all over the world start puberty at different ages. Changes that happen to young men and women during puberty include the sex organs growing bigger, hair appearing on the body, and growing taller and stronger. These changes are called secondary sex characteristics. People often notice young men's voices getting deeper, and young women growing breasts and starting to menstruate (have periods).
Because puberty is the time in a child's life when he or she becomes able to make children, this is seen as very important. Therefore, people in many countries around the world have different ways of marking this event.
Puberty is started and carried on by different hormones. Hormones are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. Hormones are made by glands in the body. Glands are organs (special parts) of the body that make hormones.
This is what happens during puberty:
On average, girls begin puberty at ages 10–11; boys at ages 11–12. Girls usually complete puberty by ages 15–17, while boys usually complete puberty by ages 16–17. The major landmark of puberty for females is menarche, the onset of menstruation, which occurs on average between ages 12–13; for males, it is the first ejaculation, which occurs on average at age 13. 
In rich countries in the 21st century, the average age at which children, especially girls, reach puberty is lower compared to the 19th century, when it was 15 for girls and 16 for boys. This can be due to improved nutrition resulting in rapid body growth, increased weight and fat deposition, or eating meat from animals which have been dosed up with oestrogen.
This is the general picture, but people round the world may start puberty at different ages. This is because their environment (things around them) may differ quite a bit. Here are some of the things that make puberty happen at different ages in people:
Girls usually reach their adult height and become sexually mature (able to have babies) about four years after puberty starts. Boys keep growing for about six years after puberty starts. Puberty in boys starts off more slowly than in girls, but then speeds up later on. Although boys are usually about shorter than girls before puberty begins, men on average end up about taller than women.
For most boys, puberty takes about six years and ends when they are about 17 or 18 years old. At the end of puberty, a teenager is usually about 10 to 30 centimetres (cm) (4 to 12 inches (in)) taller, 7 to 29 kilograms (kg) (15 to 65 pounds (lb)) heavier, and stronger. He is also able to make a woman pregnant (have a baby).
The first sign of puberty in boys is that their testicles (also called the testes) and scrotum (the "bag" that the testicles are in) grow bigger. Before puberty, each testicle is about 1.5 to 2 cm (0.6 to 0.8 in) long and has a volume of about 2 to 3 cubic centimetres (cc) (0.1 to 0.2 cubic inches (cu in)). About six years after puberty starts, the testicles reach their adult size. The volume of an average adult man's testicle is about 18 to 20 cc (1.1 to 1.2 cu in). However, it is normal for some men to have testicles smaller than this size, and for other men to have larger testicles.
The penis also grows bigger during puberty. At the start of puberty, the average length of the penis is 6 cm (2.4 in). The penis reaches adult size about five years later. A study done in 1996 found the mean length of an adult man's penis is 3.5 in (8.9 cm) when it is flaccid (, ) (not erect or hard). The average length of an erect penis is about 12.9 to 15 cm (5.1 to 5.9 in).
The testicles have two main jobs: to make hormones and sperm. The testicles make the hormone testosterone, which spreads around the body. This causes the changes in the body that make a boy grow into a man. Testosterone also makes a man feel like having sex. One year after puberty begins, when boys urinate (pee) after waking up in the morning, some sperm can be found in the urine. When a boy is about 13 years old his testicles will have grown to the stage that he may be fertile (able to make a woman pregnant). However, it will be still be difficult for him to do so. Boys usually only become fully fertile when they reach about 14 to 16 years of age. The sperm in the testicles mixes with other liquids in the body to form a whitish or yellowish and sticky fluid called semen. During puberty, two glands in the body called the seminal vesicles and prostate also grow bigger. These glands make a lot of the liquid that is in semen.
When a man is sexually excited, he gets an erection – his penis becomes bigger, longer and harder. A male can become sexually excited if thinks about sex or sees a good-looking person, or if his penis rubs against something. During puberty, some boys also have spontaneous erections. These are erections that happen by themselves without any reason. This can be embarrassing when it happens in a public place.
When a man's penis is sexually stimulated for some time, he has an orgasm and semen shoots out from the penis. This is called ejaculation. Boys who have not begun puberty cannot ejaculate. A boy's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty. For some boys, the first ejaculation takes place when they are sleeping. This is called a nocturnal emission or a wet dream. It happens without the boy's control, often when he is having a dream about sex. Scientists believe that wet dreams are the body's way of removing too much semen. A study done of 5,300 white men in the United States in 1948 found that 13% of them had their first ejaculation through a wet dream, This seems to tell us that most boys have their first ejaculation after masturbating. A male masturbates when he rubs his penis to make himself feel good sexually. The study also found that most boys who have their first ejaculation by masturbating do this a year or more earlier than boys who have their first ejaculation through a wet dream. A 2004 survey by a magazine in Canada found that most males (43%) started masturbating when they were about 12 to 13 years old. When a boy begins masturbating, wet dreams often stop happening because semen is taken out from his body regularly.
When a boy starts to ejaculate, he usually produces only a small amount of semen. The semen is different from what an adult man produces. It is usually clear and stays sticky. It either has no sperm in it, or sperm that do not move properly or do not move at all. A boy's semen only becomes like an adult man's semen about two years after his first ejaculation.
Not long after a boy's testicles and penis start to grow, pubic hair (, ) begins to appear. Pubic hair is hair that grows in the pubic region, which is the part of the body where the penis is. Pubic hair is shorter, curlier and rougher than hair on the head. It usually starts growing on the abdomen above the penis at the place where it joins the body. (The abdomen is the part of the torso where the navel or bellybutton is.) There may also be some hair on the scrotum. After about six months to a year, there will be a large triangle of hair in the pubic region. Within three to four years after puberty begins, there is a lot of pubic hair in the area above the penis. Later on, pubic hair also grows on the abdomen upwards towards the navel and on the insides of the thighs.
About two years after pubic hair starts to appear, hair also grows on other parts of the body:
The hair on the arms, legs, chest, abdomen and back may also become thicker. Different men have different amounts of body hair. Many boys begin shaving when hair starts growing on their faces.
A larger amount of male hormones in the body cause changes to perspiration (sweat). This gives it a more "adult" body odor or smell. The hormones also cause sebaceous glands in the skin to make more sebum, a type of oil that keeps the skin from getting too dry. Sebum and dead skin cells can mix with a type of germ called bacteria and block pores (tiny openings) in the skin. This causes a skin problem called acne. Most people get acne during puberty. When a person has acne, he gets swellings on his skin called blackheads, whiteheads and pimples. Blackheads and whiteheads are painless, but pimples can be red and painful. They usually form on the face but can also appear on the neck, shoulders, upper back and chest. Oil glands on scalp – the part of the head on which hair grows – also make a lot of sebum. This can cause dandruff, in which small white bits of skin fall from the scalp.
During puberty, a boy's larynx or voicebox also grows larger. This makes the laryngeal prominence or Adam's apple – the lump that sticks out of the front of his neck – larger too. As the larynx grows the vocal folds become longer and thicker, so they vibrate (move back and forth) more slowly. This causes the voice to lower in pitch or tone and become deeper. When this happens, it is sometimes said that the boy's voice has "broken". However, it actually does not happen overnight but over some time. During this time, the voice may sound scratchy. On average, a boy's voice normally reaches its adult sound when he is around 15 years old.
Towards the end of puberty, boys go through a "growth spurt" which lasts for about two to three years. During this time, their body grows taller very quickly. When the growth spurt is at its fastest point, some people grow or more a year. This happens about two years after puberty starts, usually between the ages of 13 and 15. When a boy reaches the end of his growth spurt when he is about 18 years old, he will be at his adult height. His body will not grow much taller after that. Because of their growth spurt, boys' muscles can feel sore. These "growing pains" can feel worse if boys are active and do a lot of exercise. They go away after a while. 
Boys grow more slowly than girls, but for a longer time. That is why most men are taller than women. By the end of puberty, adult males have heavier bones and more muscle than females. In an average adult man, muscle makes up 50% and fat 15% of his weight. On the other hand, 40% of an average adult woman's weight is made up of muscle while 27% is made up of fat. Because men have less body fat than women, their hips do not grow bigger. Some bones like those in the jaw and shoulders grow more in males than in females. That is why males have wider faces and shoulders but narrower hips.
The changes in a girl's body during puberty usually take place between the ages of eight and 18 years. Most girls will have finished puberty around the age of 15. They will have breasts and pubic hair, will menstruate (have a period) every month, and will be able to get pregnant. They will usually also have reached their full adult height.
When the breasts start to grow, this is normally the first sign of puberty that can be seen on the outside of a girl's body. This usually happens when girls are about the age of 10.5 years. A lump that is a bit hard appears in each breast under the areola, which is the dark ring around the nipple. The lump in one breast may grow before the other one. This is called breast budding. Within six to 12 months, both breasts will have started growing. The swelling can be felt and seen outside the edges of the areolae. About one and a half to two years after the breasts first start growing, they are close to the shape and size of an adult woman's breasts. The nipple and areola may be on a smaller mound on each breast. This small mound usually goes away when each breast is fully grown. Whether the breasts are small or large depends on how much fat there is in the body.
Between the ages of about eight and 14 (on average, at 11 or 12 years), pubic hair begins to grow along the labia (the "lips" of the vulva), usually a few months after the breasts start growing. At first the hair is thin and straight instead of curly, and there is not much of it. Within a year, the pubic hair becomes rough, dark and curly and grows in a triangle shape in the pubic region. About one year after pubic hair begins appearing, underarm hair also grows. The hair on the arms and legs also gets thicker, and some girls may have hair appearing on their upper lip and in front of their ears.
Like boys, higher amounts of hormones in the body cause girls' perspiration (sweat) to change. This gives them a more adult body odor or smell. The hormones also cause the skin to produce more sebum (oil), which usually leads to acne.
When girls are between eight and 11 years old, the two ovaries in their body begin to grow bigger. Each ovary is egg-shaped, and is attached to the side wall of the pelvis. The pelvis is a large set of bones in the hips. The ovaries are organs that make female hormones. These hormones cause a girl to grow into a woman, and make her feel like a woman. The hormones also make it possible for females to become pregnant and have babies. Inside the ovaries are about 200,000 ova (egg cells). For a baby to be formed, a woman's ovum and a man's sperm must come together. During puberty, the ova also grow bigger.
Between the ages of nine and 15 years (on average, at 12 to 13 years), the vagina and uterus (womb) become bigger. The uterus is the organ in which a baby grows. The vagina is a tube leading from the uterus to the outside of the body. The opening of the vagina is inside the vulva, in between the legs. A clear or whitish fluid may start to flow out of the vagina to keep it clean. Then, about two years after the breasts start to grow, when a girl is between ten and 16 years old (on average, at 13 to 14 years), hormones made by her ovaries cause the ovaries to release an ovum, which moves into the uterus. Usually, only one ovum is released at a time. The hormones also tell the uterus to get ready for a baby, in case the ovum meets a sperm and gets fertilized. The walls of the uterus become thicker with extra tissue. Inside the thick part of the uterus are blood vessels and other nutrients that a baby will need to grow. If an ovum in the uterus gets fertilized, it sticks to the wall of the uterus and starts to grow. However, if the ovum is not fertilized, it does not stick. The uterus then gets rid of the ovum and the extra tissue by releasing it from the body. The tissue and blood flows out of the uterus through the vagina. This is called menstruation or having a period. The bleeding normally lasts for about three to five days, though some girls may bleed for longer or have a bit of bleeding between periods. The uterus then starts preparing for another ovum. For most girls, the time between their periods is about one month. For about two years after menstruation starts, the time between periods is not always the same. Some girls may skip a month, or have two periods close to each other. It is also normal to have cramps (rather painful squeezing feelings) or to feel bloated (swollen up) in the abdomen during periods. When many girls start having periods, they begin using sanitary napkins (also called sanitary pads) or tampons to soak up the blood and tissue. A sanitary napkin is a piece of material that is absorbent (able to take in liquids) which is worn between the vulva and underpants. A tampon is a stick of absorbent material that is placed inside the vagina.
In 2004, a survey by a Canadian magazine found that most females (25%) started masturbating when they were about 12 to 13 years old.
Because of more hormones in the body, girls start to have more fat in their breasts, abdomen, hips and thighs. At the age of ten years, the average girl has 6% more body fat than the average boy, but by the end of puberty the difference is nearly 50%. The fat makes sure that a baby growing inside a pregnant woman will have enough nutrients. Also, the bones in the pelvis move further apart to make room for a larger uterus and ovaries, and so there is space for a baby to grow in the uterus and to pass out of the body when it is born. The extra fat and wider hip bones that girls have give them a curvier shape.
Girls also experience a growth spurt during puberty. In the first year after puberty begins, they grow about . They grow even faster the next year or so, then the growth slows down and almost stops when they start menstruating. After a girl's periods begin, she usually does not grow more than taller.
The large amounts of hormones in the bodies of boys and girls during puberty can also affect their emotions. Young people begin to be attracted by (drawn to) each other and thinking about what it is like to have sex. They are often worried about what other people think about them. They can also feel an urge to do things that are dangerous, such as taking drugs or too many alcoholic drinks, or smoking. They sometimes want more independence – more power to decide things for themselves – and can get angry when their parents do not allow them to do things. The brains of teenagers are still growing, and it may take a while before they are mature enough to know how to make good choices about their lives. Therefore, it may be helpful for them to follow the advice of adults they trust, even if it does not make much sense to them at the time.
Because puberty is the time in a child's life when he or she becomes able to make children, this is seen as very important. Therefore, people in many countries around the world have different ways of marking this event.

</doc>
<doc id="18091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18091" title="Stamford Bridge">
Stamford Bridge

Stamford Bridge could be

</doc>
<doc id="18094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18094" title="Bali tiger">
Bali tiger

The Bali tiger, or Balinese tiger ("Panthera tigris balica") is one of the three extinct sub-species of the tiger. They became extinct in 1937. They lived on Bali. This was the first sub-species of tiger to become extinct.
The Bali was also the smallest tiger sub-species. There is no record of a Balinese tiger ever being held in a zoo collection. The Balinese tiger's close sub-species were the Javan tiger and the Caspian tiger, which are now also extinct. The Balinese and Javan tigers were once the same, but during the Ice Age, Bali became isolated from Java by the Bali Strait. This split the tigers into two groups which then went onto develop alone. 
The killing of the very last wild Balinese tiger is usually thought to have been at Sumbar Kima, West Bali on 27 September, 1937. It was an adult tigress.So the government of Bali made a strict law on killing tigers.

</doc>
<doc id="18095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18095" title="1507">
1507

Year 1507 (MDVII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="18096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18096" title="479 BC">
479 BC

479 BC was a year in the 5th century BC.

</doc>
<doc id="18097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18097" title="192">
192


</doc>
<doc id="18098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18098" title="1758">
1758


</doc>
<doc id="18099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18099" title="1202">
1202

1202 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="18101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18101" title="Category:Money">
Category:Money


</doc>
<doc id="18102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102" title="Sitting Bull">
Sitting Bull

Sitting Bull (about 1831 – December 15, 1890), real name Tatanka Yotanka, was the chief of a Native American tribe called Hunkpapa-Lakota-Sioux. At the age of about 14, Slow participated in a war party against the Crow (warriors).
At the age of 10,however, he killed his first buffalo.
He was a very important chief and fought for the freedom of Native Americans. He fought with Crazy Horse and Big Foot at the Little Bighorn River against General George A. Custer and won. They are the most deadly tribe.
He was shot and killed by Red Tomahawk, a police sergeant, during an attempt to arrest him. 

</doc>
<doc id="18103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103" title="1632">
1632


</doc>
<doc id="18106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106" title="Michelle Kwan">
Michelle Kwan

Michelle Kwan (born July 7, 1980) is an American figure skater. She has won five world championships and nine U.S. championships.
Michelle Kwan was born on July 7, 1980, in Torrance, California. Kwan showed interest in figure stating when she followed Ron and Karen, her brother and sister, onto the ice, saying that all she could remember was "every day, tying up my skates and a big smile on my face, excited to go on the ice". She attended public school until eighth grade, when she began being homeschooled in 1994.
Kwan won the world junior championship in 1994. The same year, at the age of 13, she came in the top 10 in the world senior championship. She became world champion in 1996, when she was 15.

</doc>
<doc id="18107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18107" title="Frank Jack Fletcher">
Frank Jack Fletcher

Frank Jack Fletcher (29 April 1885 - 25 April 1973) was an Admiral in the United States Navy. He was born at Marshalltown, Iowa, of the same family line as Captain Frank "Pat" Fletcher and of Rear Admiral Frank Friday Fletcher, noted men in the Navy. He attended the Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland and had jobs on many warships. In 1914 he got the Medal of Honor at Vera Cruz. Then he was in control of a destroyer in World War I received the Navy Cross. Later he took Naval and Army War College training, became chief of staff Asiatic Fleet, aide to Secretary of the Navy Swanson, and Commanding Officer of battleship "New Mexico." He became Rear Admiral in control of Cruiser Division 3 in 1939. He was Commander of Cruisers, Pacific Fleet at the time
of Pearl Harbor. In the very bad, first six months of the war, he was Task Force Commander at the Battle of Coral Sea, the Battle of Midway, and the Battle of Eastern Solomons. Vice Admiral Fletcher then became Commander North Pacific Forces where he took the surrender of the Imperial Northern Fleet. After the war he became Chairman of the Navy General Board till he retired. Admiral Fletcher rests at Arlington National Cemetery.
"Frank Jack Fletcher, was the best fighting commander in the U.S. Navy in the twentieth century. He came out best in all three aircraft carrier battles in which he fought -- there were only five such fights in of all history. Admiral Fletcher was outnumbered at all times and when the other side was at its highest point in the early years of the Pacific War. He did not let the other side take Australia, Midway, and Guadalcanal. He put down six of the ten Japanese carriers with four of the six great carriers that had attacked Pearl Harbor. His acts were completely his own, because there was no such thing as carrier fighting experience before him to learn to fight ships from the air. He kept the Pacific safe which let much support to go to Europe and started the Allied victory in World War II."

</doc>
<doc id="18108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18108" title="Irina Slutskaya">
Irina Slutskaya

Irina Slutskaya (ru: Ирина Слуцкая) (born February 9, 1979 in Moscow), is a Russian figure skater. She has won two world championships and six European championships.
Irina began skating when she was four years old. She has had the same coach, Zhanna Gromova, since she was six years old. By 1996, she was European champion and came third in the world championships (at age 17). She went to school at the Moscow Academy of Physical Culture, graduating in the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="18109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18109" title="Lu Chen">
Lu Chen

Lu Chen (Simplified Chinese: 陈露, Traditional Chinese: 陳露, Chen Lu in Chinese) (born November 24, 1976, in Changchun) is a Chinese figure skater. She was world champion in 1995.
Chen's mother played table tennis and her father coached ice hockey. She started skating at the age of five in Jilin, and also took ballet dancing. She won the bronze medal at the world junior championship in 1992, and came third at the world senior championships the same year, at the age of 16.
Her nickname is "Lulu," and she is also known as "Butterfly on Ice." She is admired for her artistic ability.
Chen skated for the professional show "Stars on Ice" for two years. Now she runs an ice skating club in Shenzhen. This club is named after her.

</doc>
<doc id="18111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18111" title="Oksana Baiul">
Oksana Baiul

Oksana Baiul (born November 16, 1977 in Dnipropetrovsk) is a Ukrainian figure skater. She came first at the 1993 world championships and at the 1994 winter olympics.
Baiul's grandfather gave her first skates to her when she was three years old. When her mother died, she became an orphan (had no parents). But she kept skating, and won the world championships when she was only 15 years old. She became famous for her artistic ability when she skated as "the swan" to win the Olympics when she was 16. 
She has skated for many professional shows such as "Champions on Ice" and "Stars on Ice". A T.V. movie was made about her - "A Promise Kept: The Oksana Baiul Story". She now lives in New Jersey. She still skates professionally, and also makes figure skating clothes.

</doc>
<doc id="18113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18113" title="Hobo">
Hobo

Hobo is a word for a homeless person who travels to different cities and towns to look for work. Hobos usually travel by train "hopping" (riding in empty train freight railcars without paying for a ticket), or sometimes "riding the rods" (lying dangerously near the train wheels, underneath the cars).
Hobos stay in very cheap hotels in cities, or camp in simple shelters ("") in shanty towns near the rail yards. There were many hobos during the Great Depression in the United States because many people lost their jobs and homes. Many people blamed President Herbert Hoover for the Depression, so hobo camps were sometimes called "Hoovervilles".

</doc>
<doc id="18118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118" title="Wicca">
Wicca

Wicca is a neo-pagan (meaning "new pagan") religion that was created by a British man named Gerald Gardner in the mid-to-late 1940s. Gardner popularized the new religion via books of his that were published in 1949, 1954, and 1959. Those three books are High Magic's Aid, Witchcraft Today, and The Meaning of Witchcraft. Gardner called Wicca the "witch cult" and "witchcraft", and called its followers the "Wica", though in his 1959 book he also called them the "Wicca" (with two Cs), which is where that word came from. The word "wicca" means "witch" in Old English. People who follow Wicca are called "Wiccans". Before the name "Wicca" was adopted, the religion was sometimes called simply "the craft".
Some time from 1945 to 1949, Gerald Gardner altered, and added content to, the rituals of an earlier group, called the New Forest Coven. In so doing, Gerald Gardner created Wicca. The many elements from the grimoire (old hand-written book) called the Key of Solomon that are present in Wicca, and are also in Gardner's 1949 book High Magic's Aid, were most likely added by Gardner himself, rather than by the New Forest Coven that came before him.
There are many different traditions of Wicca, yet many are common beliefs that are shared by all Wiccans, such as the afterlife, magic, and morality.
Most Wiccans believe in a horned male god and a moon goddess. The only wiccans who do not believe in both the goddess and the god are those who belong to the unorthodox sect called Dianic Wicca; such wiccans believe in the existence of only the goddess. Some wiccans believe that the god and the goddess are equal, whereas some other wiccans believe that the goddess is more important than the god. There are some Wiccans who worship only the goddess.
The main Wiccan moral teaching is called the "Wiccan Rede". The word rede means "advice" or "council" in Old German. "An harm ye none, do what ye will" is the very basic Wiccan Rede, which means, ""Do what you want to do, but do not harm anything in the process"." This means that you must think about how your actions will affect other people and animals.
There is a rule in Wicca that is called "the rule of threefold return" or "the threefold rule" or "the rule of three", or called equivalent names that use the word "law" instead of "rule". The rule of threefold return is a rule of conduct, which states that a person must return three times the benefit or harm that other individuals do to them, though returning three times harm contradicts the wiccan rede. The rule of threefold return is revealed to second-degree initiates (though they are usually already familiar with it) during the second-degree initiation ritual, in which the initiator scourges the initiate, and then the initiate returns three times the number of scourgings to the initiator. That second-degree initiation ritual, along with the threefold rule within it, were made public by Gerald Gardner's 1949 book High Magic's Aid, in chapter 17.
In 1986, a wiccan named Raymond Buckland, through his popular wiccan book Buckland's Complete Book of Witchcraft, created a new definition for the rule of threefold return. In Buckland's definition, the rule of threefold return is not a rule of conduct, but a law of karma, which states that every beneficial action or harmful action that a person does returns to them three times as powerful. Buckland's definition of the threefold rule became more well-known than the original definition of the threefold rule.
Many Wiccans have special places at home where they perform rituals, magic, and worship. These places are called "altars". Wiccans put holy and special objects on their altars, such as the following items:
Some Wiccans put other objects on their altars, such as statues of gods or goddesses, a bell, candles, incense, and a broom (called a besom), used to "sweep" away negative energy or spirits.
Wiccans have two types of holidays, called sabbats and full moon esbats. There are eight sabbat holidays throughout the year. As the name suggests, full moon esbats take place during a full moon, so there are twelve or thirteen of them per year. Many post-Gardnerian wiccans use the neo-druidic term 'wheel of the year' to refer to the cycle of eight sabbats.
The eight sabbats are as follows:
In Wicca, a private book containing spells, rituals, potions, and occult knowledge, called a "Book of Shadows", is kept. In some types of Wicca, such as Gardnerian Wicca, the contents of the book are kept secret from anyone but other members of the group, or . However, some versions of the book have been published. Some parts of these published versions, such as the "Wiccan Rede" and the "Charge of the Goddess" have been used by non-Wiccans or Wiccans. Many eclectics create their own personal books, and keep them to themselves.
Wicca music or Wicca rock is music influenced by the Wicca religion and its beliefs relating to nature and conservation. 
An early band called Themis toured Canada and the USA singing and talking about Wicca. The Themis body of works promotes things that are Wiccan such as the divinity of nature; the Lord and Lady (dual deity aspect of Wicca) and an ethical credo that resembles Wiccan philosophies.
Another Canadian band, a group of vocalists from Vancouver Canada, the Chalice and Blade, also perform original pieces based on the beliefs of Wicca and "sing songs which show (their) reverence for the earth and the balance of the God and Goddess" -Chalice and Blade
According to The Religion Newswriters Foundation "Wicca is moving into the mainstream" smashing stereotypes as their movement matures. Throughout America, Wiccans are organizing congregations and youth groups, training clergy, pursuing charity work, sharing parenting tips and fighting for civil rights

</doc>
<doc id="18120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18120" title="Indochinese tiger">
Indochinese tiger

The Indochinese tiger ("Panthera tigris corbetti") is one of the six living tiger subspecies, and is found in Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and southwestern China. The Indochinese tiger is also known as the "Corbett's tiger", named after Jim Corbett. It has been listed as Endangered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. In Myanmar it is the National animal of the country.
Males are around 8–9 ft (2.4-2.7 meters) long, and weigh around 330 to 430 pounds. Females are around 7–8 ft (2.1-2.4 meters) long, and weigh around 221 to 287 pounds. Indochinese tigers are darker in colour than the Bengal tiger, and have narrow stripes which usually break up into a row of spots. Their belly, chin and cheeks are white in colour.
The Indochinese tiger is found throughout Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Burma and Vietnam. It also lived in China, but no Indochinese tiger has been seen in China since 2007.
It is found mostly in lowland and highland tropical deciduous, semi-evergreen and evergreen forests. The Indochinese tiger is also found in hilly and mountainous areas. 
Indochinese tigers feed mainly on medium-sized and large-sized wild ungulates. Sambar deer, wild pig, serow, and large bovids such as banteng and young gaur make up most of the Indochinese tiger's diet. Some of its prey, like the kouprey and Schomburgk's deer, are extinct, but some, like the Eld's deer, hog deer and wild water buffalo, are still living but rare. Indochinese tigers also feed on muntjac deer, porcupines, macaques and hog badgers. 
They have been known to supplement their diet with birds, fish, monkeys and reptiles.
Female Indochinese tigers are pregnant for around 3–4 months, before giving birth to about 5 cubs. Newborn Indochinese tigers weigh around 1 kg (2 lb), and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Indochinese tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Indochinese tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.

</doc>
<doc id="18121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18121" title="Office">
Office

An office is generally a room or other area where administrative work is done. It may also be a position within an organization with specific duties attached to it. For example, the office of treasurer. An office is a design phenomenon. It can be a small office such as a bench in the corner of a very small business. It can also be anything up to and including large buildings full of offices. In modern use an office usually means the location where white-collar workers are employed.
Men have done administrative work for many centuries. But it is not clear when the room where paperwork was created began to be thought of an office. In the earliest European history it may have been a room in a palace where some kind of accounting was done for the king. Earlier forms of keeping records were known but were not confined to a room or rooms. For example, in ancient China string was knotted to keep count of things as a record. But the record-keeper's "office" was not a room but wherever he needed to be to count something.
In the early Middle Ages many monasteries had a scriptorium. This was a place where texts of all kinds were written and copied. All of the work was done by hand. This may actually be one of the first uses of a room as an office.
The High Middle Ages (1000–1300) saw the rise of the medieval chancery. This was usually the place where most government letters were written and where laws were copied in the administration of a kingdom. 
With the growth of large, complex organizations in the 18th century, the first actual office spaces were constructed. As the Industrial Revolution grew in the 18th and 19th centuries, the industries of banking, rail, insurance, retail, petroleum, and telegraphy grew dramatically. A large number of clerks were needed. As a result more office space was needed for these activities. The time and motion study, pioneered in manufacturing by F. W. Taylor led to the “Modern Efficiency Desk” with a flat top and drawers below. This was designed to allow managers an easy view of the workers. However, by the middle of the 20th century, it became apparent that offices various degrees of privacy. Gradually the cubicle system evolved.
The main purpose of an office is to support its occupants in performing their job. Work spaces in an office are typically used for conventional office activities such as reading, writing and computer work. There are also meeting rooms, lounges, and spaces for support activities, such as photocopying and filing. Some offices also have a kitchen area where workers can make their lunches. There are many different ways of arranging the space in an office and whilst these vary according to function, managerial fashions and the culture of specific companies can be even more important.
While offices can be built in almost any location and in almost any building, some modern requirements for offices make this more difficult, such as requirements for light, networking, and security. The primary purpose of an office building is to provide a workplace and working environment primarily for administrative and managerial workers. These workers usually occupy set areas within the office building, and usually are provided with desks, PCs and other equipment they may need within these areas.

</doc>
<doc id="18125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18125" title="Phenomenon">
Phenomenon

A phenomenon (Greek: ", pl. ") is an observable event or, quite literally, something that can be seen.
It comes from the noun ("phainomenon, df. appearance") and is also related to the verb ("phainein, df. to show"). Its plural is phenomena. Its antonym is "lathomenon", meaning "something lying beneath the surface". 
Phenomenon can also mean a "surprising development" or "unusually successful person".
In science, "phenomenon" stands for any event which we can sense or detect or record. In science, the word "observe" means more than just "visible to the naked eye". It means "sensible", available to our senses. The senses we are born with are extended by a whole range of instruments which record things we cannot see, and make them visible to us.
So, while some events are easy to observe, others need technology to make observation possible. 

</doc>
<doc id="18126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18126" title="Konstantin Chernenko">
Konstantin Chernenko

Konstantin Ustinovich Chernenko (Russian language: Константи́н Усти́нович Черне́нко September 24, 1911 – March 10, 1985) was the leader of the Soviet Union for a short time. He became the leader in 1984. He had emphysema, hepatitis and cirrhosis. He ruled for 13 months until his death in from heart failure in Moscow in 1985. Chernenko had a son called Albert.

</doc>
<doc id="18127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18127" title="Shetland Sheepdog">
Shetland Sheepdog

A Shetland Sheepdog is a kind of small dog whose ancestors came from the Shetland Islands. Many people call them "Shelties". They are popular pets in many countries. Shelties have the same origins with Rough Collie and Border Collie. Shelties are a working dog and are sometimes used for herding.
A Sheltie can have a mix of several colors in its coat. Most shelties are sable and white (brown and white) or tri-color (black, white and tan). Their fur is long and they shed twice a year. Shelties range in size from 13 to 16 inches. They usually weigh about 25-30 pounds.
Shelties are very energetic dogs that run and bark a lot. They are great with children. 
It was said that Shelties were sheep dogs so they try to please their master and have a strong sense of responsibility. They do not need very much discipline. Shelties rank in the top ten smartest dogs. They learn new things very quickly and remember them well. Shelties make great family pets as long as you do not mind a dog that barks.^^

</doc>
<doc id="18135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18135" title="Belief">
Belief

A belief is a firm thought that something is true, often based on revelation. Belief is usually a part of belonging to a religion. It is different to scientific knowledge that can be tested, but belief is not able to be tested. For example, a person may believe in God or gods.
The word is also used to describe what a person expects will happen based on limited information. For example, "I believe Amy will come around today". Belief is also something you believe in but you cannot prove exactly.

</doc>
<doc id="18136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18136" title="German Shepherd">
German Shepherd

The German Shepherd (), also known as the Alsatian, is a breed of medium-large dog. It was first developed in Germany in an area called Alsace. They are often used as police dogs, but they have many other uses. They have been used as herding dogs, guard dogs and as pets.
An important modern use is the dog's ability to perform search and rescue. In former times the American Rescue Dog Association only used air-scenting Alsatians to locate people who are missing or lost. They search in wilderness, disaster, human body remains and water search and rescue and recovery missions. The breed is smart, athletic and can live in a wide variety of climate conditions. 
Male German Shepherds usually weigh around . Females usually weigh around .
The term Alsatian, instead of German Shepherd, was first popularly used by the British in the First World War. This was because the country was at war with Germany. Adolf Hitler, a German dictator, was also known to have German Shepherds as pets.

</doc>
<doc id="18138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18138" title="Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back">
Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back

Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back was the second film in the "Star Wars saga". The movie was released in 1980 and is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, action, and drama.
The Rebels hide from the Empire on the icy planet Hoth. The Empire finds the Rebels and they have to leave the planet after a battle.
Luke Skywalker finds Yoda, a 900-year-old Jedi Master and begins the training to become a Jedi. Han Solo, Chewbacca, Princess Leia and C-3P0 are caught by the Empire and Solo is frozen in carbonite. In his Jedi training, Luke gets a vision that his friends are in danger and tries to help them. He has to confront Darth Vader, and the two of them fight. When Luke fights Vader, he cuts off Luke's hand and Luke also learns that Vader is his father. His hand is replaced with a prosthetic one, including nerves, muscles, and some other stuff.

</doc>
<doc id="18139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18139" title="Church of the SubGenius">
Church of the SubGenius

The Church of the SubGenius is a religion founded by Ivan Stang and Philo Drummond. Originally based in Dallas, Texas, it is now based in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. In 2009, Stang said that The Church of the Subgenius has 40,000 followers, but the real number of followers is not known.
The church's beliefs are said to be very complex. The church teaches that it was founded by a salesman named J. R. "Bob" Dobbs. In 1953 "Bob" was fixing his TV which he made, and the Space God JHVH-1 gave him knowledge of the past and future, and the idea of "Slack". The church teaches that there is a conspiracy to make humans work, so that they can't have "Slack". It says that its members are descended from Yetis. It also said that aliens would come to earth on 5 July 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="18142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18142" title="Category:1885 births">
Category:1885 births


</doc>
<doc id="18145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18145" title="Category:1632">
Category:1632


</doc>
<doc id="18150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18150" title="Category:1101">
Category:1101


</doc>
<doc id="18151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151" title="Category:1290">
Category:1290


</doc>
<doc id="18152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18152" title="Category:1290s">
Category:1290s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1290s which begins in the year 1290 and ends in the year 1299.

</doc>
<doc id="18153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18153" title="Category:1310s">
Category:1310s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1310s which begins in the year 1310 and ends in the year 1319.

</doc>
<doc id="18154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18154" title="Category:1326">
Category:1326


</doc>
<doc id="18155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18155" title="Category:1409">
Category:1409


</doc>
<doc id="18156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18156" title="Category:1455">
Category:1455

[[en:Category:1455]
[[Category:1450s]]

</doc>
<doc id="18158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18158" title="Category:1461">
Category:1461


</doc>
<doc id="18159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18159" title="Category:1467">
Category:1467


</doc>
<doc id="18160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18160" title="Category:1505">
Category:1505


</doc>
<doc id="18161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18161" title="Category:1528">
Category:1528


</doc>
<doc id="18162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18162" title="Category:1556">
Category:1556


</doc>
<doc id="18164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18164" title="Category:1625">
Category:1625


</doc>
<doc id="18165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18165" title="Category:1623">
Category:1623


</doc>
<doc id="18173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18173" title="Terry Bradshaw">
Terry Bradshaw

Terry Bradshaw is a former American athlete. He is also a sports presenter. He was born September 2, 1948 in Shreveport, Louisiana. Bradshaw is a former quarterback with the Pittsburgh Steelers in the National Football League, and a television and American football host. Over six years, he won four Super Bowl titles with Pittsburgh (1975, 1976, 1979 and 1980). He went into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1989.
He is related to Cory J.Bylsma

</doc>
<doc id="18176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18176" title="Squid">
Squid

Squid are cephalopods of the order Teuthida. They are the sister group to the octopods. Squid are carnivores and, in turn, they are hunted. The largest squid, the giant squid and colossal squid, are eaten by sperm whales and sleeper sharks. 
There are about 300 species of squid. 
Squid, like cuttlefish, have eight arms arranged in pairs, and two longer tentacles with suckers.
All squid have a mouth with a radula, and jet propulsion with the siphon from the mantle. The radulla is a scraping organ in the mouth that scrapes nutrients from food sources. 
Tentacles are used for locomotive power and capturing food sources. All squids are carnivores; they eat other animals, not plants. 
Like other cephalopoda, squid are intelligent animals. Squids have a head-like structure, with sense organs and brains in the front end. Although the squids lack exterior shells they have a vestigial shell inside, made of chitin.
The skin is covered in chromatophores, which enable the squid to change colour to suit its surroundings, making it effectively camouflaged. Controlled by the nervous system, the camouflage can change in 'real time'. 
After a male and female mate, the female squid lays eggs. The eggs are laid inside an egg case. Since the squid is usually a part of a shoal, it is laid with many other egg cases from many other squids, and then anchored to the sea floor. Because of this, squid eggs are often (many times) found in clumps, and those clumps often look like a flower.
Often, the male will die a short time after mating, and the female will die once she has released her eggs. Because of this, squids usually lay eggs only once. Squids do not live very long. Although there are some long-lived species, most squids live for only one or two years.
Most squid are no more than long, although the giant squid may reach .
In 1978, sharp, curved claws on the suction cups of squid tentacles cut up the rubber coating on the hull of the USS "Stein". The size suggested the largest squid known at the time.
In February 2007, a New Zealand fishing vessel caught a colossal squid weighing and measuring around off the coast of Antarctica. This specimen is the largest invertebrate ever found. Squid have the largest eyes in the animal kingdom.
Giant squid are featured in literature and folklore with a frightening connotation. The Kraken is a legendary tentacled monster possibly based on sightings of real giant squid.

</doc>
<doc id="18177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18177" title="Giant squid">
Giant squid

The giant squid "Architeuthis" is a genus of deep-ocean dwelling squid. Giant squid can grow to a tremendous size: recent estimates put the maximum size at 13 metres (43 ft) for females and 10 metres (33 ft) for males from caudal fin to the tip of the two long tentacles
There is a larger squid, known as the Colossal Squid.
Until 2005, nobody had ever seen a giant squid that was alive. Only dead giant squids had been found. On 30 September 2004, researchers from Japan took the first images of a live giant squid in its natural habitat. Several of the 556 photographs were released a year later. The same team successfully filmed a live adult giant squid for the first time on December 4, 2006.
There is no agreement as to how many species there are. The Kraken is also believed to be a giant squid,
For many years, people would hear stories from fishermen about giant squids at sea. According to the stories, an enormous squid would wrap its arms around a whale, causing a terrible fight to start. Whalers said that sometimes, when they caught a whale, it would have scars as big as dinner plates on its body. Other times, when they cut open the stomach of some of their whales, they would find squid arms as long as 30 ft with suckers up to four inches wide. The whalers who told these stories either chopped up the squid parts to eat or use as bait, or they threw them back out to sea before scientists were ever able to examine them. However, in 1861, a French ship was able to bring back parts of a giant squid so scientists could study them.
Then, in the late 18th century, several giant squids washed up on shore, proving that giant squids really exist. After that, many giant squids were found washed ashore or dead at sea. Scientists grew very interested in these mysterious creatures, but few ever saw them alive. Scientists think they spend most of their time in deep, cold ocean.
In December 2005, the Melbourne Aquarium in Australia got the intact body of a giant squid, preserved in a giant block of ice. It had been caught by fishermen off the coast of New Zealand's South Island that year.
The number of known giant squid specimens was close to 600 in 2004, and new ones are reported each year.

</doc>
<doc id="18178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18178" title="Googol">
Googol

A googol is the number 10 .
The word googol was first used by 9-year-old Milton Sirotta, nephew of U.S. mathematician Edward Kasner. Sirotta made this word in 1938, for the number represented by the numeral 1 followed by 100 zeros. It is said that the word "googol" was chosen to represent this number because it sounded like baby talk.
The company Google was named after the number "googol". It was named this because it was said that not only did "google" sound like "googol", but Google had a googol search results. 

</doc>
<doc id="18180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18180" title="National Football League">
National Football League

The National Football League (also called the NFL) is an American football league. There are 32 teams in the league. The league is a professional league, which means that the players are paid to play and that it is their job. A league is a competition between a number of teams. The teams play other teams, and the results are used to list the teams in order of who is best. The team at the top of the list (called a league table) is the best team and the team at the bottom is the worst team.
It is now the most popular professional league in the United States by number of television viewers. The NFL also has the highest per-game attendance of any professional league in the world; in the most recently completed 2014 season, the average crowd at an NFL game was more than 67,000. Its championship game, the Super Bowl, is an unofficial national holiday in the U.S., and is seen by more people than any other American television program.
In 1920, an American football league was formed. It was called the American Professional Football Association. In 1921 it changed its name to the National Football League. In 1960 another league was formed, called the American Football League. In 1970 the National Football League and the American Football League joined together so that the teams from each league could play each other. The league called the National Football League changed its name to the National Football Conference (usually called the NFC) and the league called the American Football League changed its name to the American Football Conference (usually called the AFC). The two conferences together are now called the National Football League. People can also call it by the acronym NFL for short.
Because the U.S. is a big country and it would be hard for teams to travel a long way to play other teams, the teams are separated into smaller regional divisions based on where they are in the country. The teams are separated like this:
The teams in the NFL play games against each other from September to January. This time is called a season. Each team plays 16 games. This is how which games a team will play is chosen:
Since the 2006 season, the NFL has used a "flexible-scheduling" system for the last seven weeks of the regular season where there is a Sunday night game. The system is designed so that the league has the flexibility in selecting games to air on Sunday night that will feature the current hottest, streaking teams.
Under the system, all Sunday games in the affected weeks will tentatively have the "early" start time of 1 p.m. ET/10 a.m. PT, except those played in the Pacific or Mountain time zones, which will have the tentative start time of 4 p.m. ET/1 p.m. PT. On the Tuesday 12 days before the games, the league will move one game to the prime-time slot, and possibly move one or more 1 p.m. slotted games to the 4 p.m. slot. During the last week of the season, the league could re-schedule games as late as six days before the contests so that as many of the television networks as possible will be able to broadcast a game that has playoff implications.
At the end of every NFL season, the eight teams that finish the season at the top of their leagues and two teams from each conference that were the best teams apart from the eight league winners (these four teams are called Wild Cards) enter a competition to see who is the best team in the whole league. This is called the Playoffs. There are a total of 12 teams in the Playoffs, six from the NFC and six from the AFC. The six teams in each conference are listed in order of how well they played in the season. This is called seeding and it is done to make it easier for the better teams to win. The teams that did not win their leagues (the Wild Cards) are always the fifth and sixth seeds in the list, even if they were better than a team that won a different league.
In the first part of the playoffs (called Wild Card Weekend) there are four games.
The teams that lose these games are not in the playoffs competition any more. Now there are only 8 teams left.
In the second part of the playoffs (called the Divisional Playoffs) there are four games.
The teams that lose these games are not in the playoffs competition any more. Now there are only 4 teams left.
In the third part of the playoffs (called the Conference Championship Games) there are two games.
The last part of the playoffs is called the Super Bowl. The AFC Champion and the NFC Champion teams play each other to decide who is the best team in the NFL.

</doc>
<doc id="18181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18181" title="Super Bowl">
Super Bowl

The Super Bowl is a special American football game played every year at the end of the National Football League (NFL) season. The best team from each of the two NFL conferences play for the Vince Lombardi Trophy, which was named after the first coach to win a Super Bowl. For most football fans, it is a very special event. 
Some people who do not like football still watch it for the commercials and the half-time show. The TV advertisements during Super Bowl are the most expensive in the world in per second value. Because the high cost of advertising companies usually produce unique advertisements. As a result, watching advertisements has been a well publicized event in itself.
The Pittsburgh Steelers are the team with the most Super Bowl Wins with six victories. The San Francisco 49ers and Dallas Cowboys currently are tied for the second-most Super Bowl wins with five. The Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Houston Texans, and the Jacksonville Jaguars have never played in a Super Bowl. The Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets have not played in the Super Bowl since the American Football League (AFL) and the NFL joined together in 1970.
Notes

</doc>
<doc id="18187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18187" title="We Will Rock You">
We Will Rock You

"We Will Rock You" is a song by Queen. It is one of their most famous songs. It is used at a lot of sports events. The main song has the band stamping their feet twice, and clapping once. At the end, a short guitar part is played.
Musicians:

</doc>
<doc id="18190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18190" title="Lagos">
Lagos

Lagos is the second largest city in Nigeria and the most populous city in Nigeria and in West Africa, with more than 10 million inhabitants. There are about 12.5 million to 18 million people living in Lagos which makes it one of the biggest cities in Africa. Lagos is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean. The city is made of several local local government areas. Some of these include Somolu Koshofe, Ifelodun, Surulere, Agege, Ikeja, Ikorodu, Ajegunle, Oshodi, and Maryland.
Each Local government area has a presence of the central government with the establishment of general hospital, judiciary and police stations to help in protecting life and properties.
Lagos was the capital of Nigeria until 1992, when the capital was moved to Abuja. Lagos still acts as the commercial capital of Nigeria and a gateway to West Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="18194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18194" title="Infinitive">
Infinitive

The infinitive is a verb form. It has no person, number, mood, or tense.
In English, there are two main forms of the infinitive:
After a modal verb you must use an infinitive. For example, "I must go", "he must go" ("he must goes" is not correct)
To express time relationships, here are 6 types of infinitives:

</doc>
<doc id="18195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18195" title="Cartridge">
Cartridge

Cartridge can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18196" title="Real number">
Real number

A real number is a rational or irrational number. Usually when people say "number" they usually mean "real number". The official symbol for real numbers is a bold R or a blackboard bold formula_1.
Some real numbers are called positive. A positive number is "bigger than zero". You can think of the real numbers as an infinitely long ruler. There is a mark for zero and every other number, in order of size. Unlike a ruler, there are numbers below zero. These are called negative real numbers. Negative numbers are "smaller than zero". They are like a mirror image of the positive numbers, except they are given minus signs (–) so that they are labeled differently from the positive numbers.
There are infinitely many real numbers. There is no smallest or biggest real number. No matter how many real numbers are counted, there are always more which need to be counted. There are no empty spaces between real numbers. This means that if two different real numbers are taken, there will always be a third real number between them, no matter how close together the first two numbers are.
If a positive number is added to another positive number, that number gets bigger. Zero is also a real number. If zero is added to a number, that number does not change. If a negative number is added to another number, that number gets smaller.
The real numbers are uncountable. That means that there is no way to put all the real numbers into a sequence. Any sequence of real numbers will miss out a real number, even if the sequence is infinite. This makes the real numbers special. Even though there are infinitely many real numbers and infinitely many integers, we can say that there are "more" real numbers than integers because the integers are "countable" and the real numbers are "uncountable".
Some simpler number systems are inside the real numbers. For example, the rational numbers and integers are all in the real numbers. There are also more complicated number systems than the real numbers, such as the complex numbers. Every real number is a complex number, but not every complex number is a real number. 
There are different types of real numbers. Sometimes all the real numbers are not talked about at once. Sometimes only special, smaller sets of them are talked about. These sets have special names. They are:
The number 0 ("zero") is special. Sometimes it is taken as part of the subset to be considered, and at other times it is not. It is the Identity element for addition and subtraction. That means that adding or subtracting zero does not change the original number. For multiplication and division, the identity element is 1.
One real number that is not rational is formula_2. This number is irrational. If a square is drawn with sides that are one unit long, the length of the line between its opposite corners will be formula_2.
The number formula_2 is not rational. Here is the proof.
It is not true that formula_2 is a rational number. So formula_2 is irrational.

</doc>
<doc id="18198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18198" title="Elvis Stojko">
Elvis Stojko

Elvis Stojko (born March 22, 1972 in Newmarket, Ontario ) is a Canadian figure skater. He was world champion three times, and Canadian champion seven times.
Stojko was named after Elvis Presley, and sometimes skates to Presley's music. He grew up in Richmond Hill, Ontario. He started skating when he was four years old. He also became a black belt in karate (which has influenced some of his skating). Stojko was the first person to do a quadruple-triple jump combination. He became known for his athletic ability.
Today he is a professional skater, and also competes in karate.

</doc>
<doc id="18202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18202" title="Album">
Album

An album is a collection of sound recordings. It is usually made by a musician, and is sold in stores to people. Albums today mainly come in the form of compact discs, although many artists also release their albums on vinyl records.
There are two main types of albums, studio albums and live albums. Studio albums are recorded at a recording studio. Live albums are normally recorded while the musicians are performing for an audience. Live albums are usually recorded at concerts. 
Other types of albums include:
Albums are normally separated into "Tracks". Each track is a part of the album which has one song in it. The term is often used to mean a specific song on the album by number. For example, the "fourth track" or "track four" from an album is the fourth song on the album when it is played from the beginning.

</doc>
<doc id="18204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18204" title="Nobel Prize in Chemistry">
Nobel Prize in Chemistry

The Nobel Prize in Chemistry is awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. It awards people who have made progress in the scientific area of chemistry, those who have worked hard to learn more and have succeeded.
The Prize is given every year. It is just one of many Nobel Prizes. A famous winner of this prize was Marie Curie 1911, who discovered radium with her husband Pierre. She was the first person to win the prize twice; the first time was for physics in 1903.

</doc>
<doc id="18205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18205" title="Baker Island">
Baker Island

Baker Island is a small coral island, or atoll, in the North Pacific Ocean. It is just above the equator. It belongs to the United States. The United States Department of the Interior is in charge of the island. It is called the "Baker Island National Wildlife Refuge". 
The island has no trees. The island is surrounded by a coral reef. This makes the atoll hard to approach in a boat.

</doc>
<doc id="18206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18206" title="Hermaphrodite">
Hermaphrodite

Hermaphrodite is a term which comes from Hermaphroditus, the son of Hermes and Aphrodite. It is used as a scientific term in biology.
In zoology, an animal which can produce both sperm and ova is a hermaphrodite. As an example, most earthworms are hermaphrodites. A simultaneous hermaphrodite has both sets of sex organs throughout life. A sequential hermaphrodite has ovaries at first, replaced by a testis later, or the other way round.
In botany, hermaphrodite is used for 'complete' flowers with both male and female parts, and for plants which have bisexual reproductive units. See flowering plant sexuality for details.
With people, the term hermaphrodite is not correct, because true functioning hermaphrodites are not possible in humans. What sometimes happens is errors in development which lead to intersex persons. A definition of intersex is :
People who are intersex may have a very small penis and no testicles, or a very small and short vagina and a large clitoris that looks like a penis. 

</doc>
<doc id="18207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207" title="Epididymis">
Epididymis

The epididymis is the part of the human male reproductive system. It is the tube that holds the testicles in place. It stretches from the back of each testicle to the van deferens.
The dinges is made up of three parts:
Sperm made in the testis go into the head ("caput") of the epididymis, go through the body ("corpus") and stop at the tail ("cauda"), where they are stored. When sperm are first made and travel to the head, they are not yet ready to be ejaculated. They cannot swim or fertilize an egg. By the time they reach the tail, the sperm can fertilize an egg. The sperm are transferred to the Seminal visicle through the vas deferens. The sperm can not swim yet, so muscle contractions push the sperm to the seminal vesicle where final development is finished. . 
When the sperm are ejaculated, they move through the tail of the epididymis. There are so many sperm that they cannot swim, but use peristalsis from muscles in the vas deferens.
An injury or infection of the epididymis causes epididymitis, a painful condition that can take months to heal. Sometimes the testicle has to be removed. There does not seem to be any single cause, or treatment for this condition. Some doctors treat it with antibiotics, some take a "wait and see" attitude. At times just one testicle is affected and at others, both.

</doc>
<doc id="18208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208" title="1810s">
1810s


</doc>
<doc id="18209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18209" title="Mammary gland">
Mammary gland

Mammary glands are the part of the female body designed for the making milk for baby mammals to drink. In humans they are in the breasts.

</doc>
<doc id="18214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18214" title="Kurt Browning">
Kurt Browning

Kurt Browning (born June 18, 1966 in Rocky Mountain House, Alberta) is a Canadian figure skater. He won four world championships and four Canadian championships.
Browning did the first ever quadruple jump (four turns) in competition. He is well known for his footwork. As a professional, he has skated for Stars on Ice and Tom Collins Tour of Champions, won several professional championships, and did some T.V. skating specials. He has also talked during skating events on T.V. He has helped the charity Muscular Dystrophy.
Browning was raised in Caroline, Alberta. He married a dancer with the National Ballet of Canada, Sonia Rodriguez, in 1996. They have a son Gabriel, born in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="18216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18216" title="Airbus">
Airbus

Airbus (, , ], ) is a company which makes aircraft. It is owned by EADS, a European aerospace company. Airbus has its headquarters in Blagnac, France. 
Airbus began as a consortium (a group) of aircraft makers called Airbus Industrie. Later, in 2001, it became a joint-stock company. It was owned by EADS (80%) and BAE Systems (20%). BAE sold its part of the company to EADS on 13 October 2006, so EADS now completely owns the company.
Around 55,000 people work for Airbus in sixteen places in four European Union countries: France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain. The final part of Airbus aircraft making is done in Toulouse, France; Hamburg, Germany; Seville, Spain; and, since 2009, Tianjin, China. 
Airbus makes and sells the first digital fly-by-wire airliner, the Airbus A320. Airbus also makes the biggest airliner in the world, the Airbus A380.
"Airbus Industrie" started as a consortium (group) of European aircraft makers. The companies came together to compete with American companies like Boeing, McDonnell Douglas and Lockheed.
Even though a lot of European planes had a lot of new features, even the most successful planes were not made for long. In 1991, Jean Pierson, who was then the CEO and Managing Director of Airbus Industrie, gave some reasons why American plane makers were bigger: because the United States is so big, people preferred to fly; a 1942 agreement between the United Kingdom and the United States meant that the United States would make transport planes; and World War II had given the United States "a profitable, vigorous, powerful and structured aeronautical industry."
In the 1960s, some plane makers were thinking about coming together. Some aircraft companies had already thought that this would need to happen. In 1959, Hawker Siddeley thought about making an "Airbus" version of the Armstrong Whitworth AW.660 Argosy. This version would "be able to lift as many as 126 passengers on ultra short routes at a direct operating cost of 2d. per seat mile." However, European aircraft makers knew that making this plane would be dangerous. They knew that they would have to work together to make a plane like this. At the 1965 Paris Air Show, big European airlines began to think about the specifications for the "airbus". In that same year, Hawker Siddeley joined with Breguet and Nord to design the airbus. By 1966, Sud Aviation (became Aérospatiale) (France), Arbeitsgemeinschaft Airbus (became Deutsche Airbus) (Germany) and Hawker Siddeley (UK) were all working together. The partners asked for money from the French, German and British governments in October 1966. On 25 July 1967, the three governments gave the money and decided to continue with the airbus.
In the two years after this, both the British and French governments thought the project would fail. 75 orders were needed before 31 July 1968. The French government thought about leaving the partnership, because it was worried about the costs of the Airbus A300, Concorde and the Dassault Mercure. The French government was persuaded to stay. The British government left the partnership on 10 April 1969. Hawker Siddeley was helping until the British government left, and France and Germany did not want to design the airbus' wing (which Hawker Siddeley was doing). Hawker Siddeley was allowed to keep helping, but it did not have any help from the British government.
Airbus Industrie was officially started as a "Groupement d'Interet Économique" (Economic Interest Group or GIE) on 18 December 1970. The name "Airbus" was taken from a word used by airlines in the 1960s. It meant an aircraft with a certain size and range. Aérospatiale and Deutsche Airbus each owned 36.5% of the company, Hawker Siddeley owned 20% and Fokker-VFW owned 7%. Each company made its own parts of the plane, and they were completely ready when they were delivered. In October 1971, the Spanish company CASA took 4.2% of Airbus Industrie. Aérospatiale and Deutsche Airbus lowered their share to 47.9%. In January 1979, British Aerospace, which had taken over Hawker Siddeley in 1977, took 20% of Airbus Industrie. Aérospatiale and Deutsche Airbus lowered their share even more, to 37.9%. CASA kept its 4.2%.
The Airbus A300 was to be the first aircraft which was designed, made and sold by Airbus Industrie. By 1967, the "A300" label was given an airliner which Airbus Industrie was thinking about making, with 320 seats and two engines. Roger Béteille was made the technical director of the A300 design. Béteille decided which companies would make which parts of the plane: France would make the cockpit, flight controls and part of the fuselage; Hawker Siddeley made the wings; Germany made part of the fuselage; the Dutch made the flaps and spoilers; and Spain made the horizontal tailplane. On 26 September 1967 the German, French and British governments signed an agreement in London, which allowed Airbus Industrie to continue designing the plane. Rolls-Royce made the engines.
Airlines did not really want a 300+ seat Airbus A300, so Airbus Industrie made the A250 proposal. This later became the A300B, which had 250 seats and did not need a new engine design. This made the plane much cheaper to design, as the Rolls-Royce RB207 which would have been used in the A300 made up a lot of the costs. The RB207 had also had design problems and delays, since Rolls-Royce was concentrating on designing a different jet engine, the RB211, for the Lockheed L-1011 The A300B was smaller but lighter than its American rivals.
In 1972, the A300 made its first flight. The first type of A300, the A300B2, began being used by airlines in 1974. However, not much attention was paid to the A300 because of the launch of Concorde. At first, the A300 was not very successful. However, airlines began to order more and more. Part of this was because of the Airbus Industrie CEO Bernard Lathière, who tried to sell the plane to airlines in America and Asia. By 1979, Airbus Industrie had 256 orders for the A300. Airbus Industrie had also designed a more advanced aircraft, the Airbus A310, the year before. It was the A320 in 1981 which made Airbus Industrie a very big aircraft maker. More than 400 orders were made for the A320 before it even flew. Only 15 were made for the A300 before it first flew.
Since Airbus Industrie's planes were made by different companies, Airbus Industrie really only sold and advertised the planes. It became obvious that Airbus was no longer a temporary group made just to make one plane. It had become a big company which could make more planes. By the late 1980s, Airbus Industrie was working on two medium-sized planes: the Airbus A330 and the Airbus A340.
In the early 1990s, the Airbus CEO Jean Pierson said that the partnership should be closed, and Airbus Industrie should become its own company. However, the difficulties of integrating and valuing the assets of four companies, as well as legal issues, delayed the initiative. In December 1998, when British Aerospace and DASA were close to merging with each other, Aérospatiale stopped the negotiations. The French company thought that if BAe and DASA merged, that company would own 57.9% of Airbus. Aérospatiale insisted that each company own half of Airbus each. However, the problem was fixed in January 1999, when BAe merged with Marconi Electronic Systems instead. This company became BAE Systems. Then in 2000, three of the companies which made Airbus Industrie (DaimlerChrysler Aerospace, the new Deutsche Airbus; Aérospatiale-Matra, the new Sud-Aviation; and CASA) merged. This merger made EADS. EADS now owned Airbus France, Airbus Deutschland and Airbus España, which was 80% of Airbus Industrie. BAE Systems and EADS created the new company, Airbus . Both companies owned part of Airbus.
In 1988, some Airbus engineers, led by Jean Roeder, began secretly designing a very big plane. It was made to allow Airbus to rival Boeing, whose 747 had been the only very big plane since the 1970s. Airbus made the project public at the 1990 Farnborough Air Show. Airbus wanted to make this plane 15% cheaper to use than the Boeing 747-400. In June 1994, Airbus named the plane the A3XX. 
Five A380s were made for testing, and also to demonstrate the plane to airlines and the public. The first A380 was shown to the public on 18 January 2005, and it first flew on 27 April 2005. The head test pilot said that flying the A380 was like "like handling a bicycle". On 1 December 2005, the A380 reached its maximum speed, Mach 0.96. On 10 January 2006, the A380 made its first flight across the Atlantic, to Medellín, in Colombia.
On 3 October 2006, Airbus' CEO Christian Streiff said that the Airbus A380 was delayed because of problems with the software used to design the aircraft. The Toulouse factory used the latest version of CATIA (made by Dassault), but the people who were designing the plane in the Hamburg factory were using an older version. The 530 km of cables which go through the aircraft had to have their design completely changed. No airlines cancelled their orders, but Airbus still had to pay a lot of money because of the delay.
The first A380 was delivered to Singapore Airlines on 15 October 2007. It began to be used on 25 October 2007, when it flew between Singapore and Sydney. Two months later, Singapore Airlines' CEO Chew Choong Seng said that the A380 was better than both the airline and Airbus thought. It used 20% less fuel per passenger than the Boeing 747-400. Emirates was the second airline to get an A380 on 28 July 2008, and it used the A380 to fly between Dubai and New York on 1 August 2008. Qantas got the A380 on 19 September 2008, and its A380s flew between Melbourne and Los Angeles on 20 October 2008.
On 6 April 2006, it was announced that BAE Systems would sell its 20% of Airbus. Its share was worth about €3.5 billion (US$4.17 billion). At first, BAE wanted to agree a price with EADS informally. 
On 2 July 2006, BAE's part of the company was thought to be worth about £1.9 billion (€2.75 billion), which was much less than what BAE, analysts, and even EADS thought. In September 2006, BAE sold its part of Airbus for £1.87 billion (€2.75 billion, $3.53 billion). On 4 October, BAE's shareholders decided that the sale should go ahead, meaning that Airbus is now completely owned by EADS.
On 28 February 2007, CEO Louis Gallois said that Airbus was planning to make some changes. The programme was called Power, and it got rid of 10,000 jobs over four years: 4,300 in France, 3,700 in Germany, 1,600 in the UK and 400 in Spain. Airbus factories in Saint Nazaire, Varel and Laupheim could be sold or closed, while Meaulte, Nordenham and Filton are "open to investors". Unions in France and Germany threatened to go on strike because of the job cuts.
At the 2011 Paris Air Show, Airbus got 730 orders for Airbus A320neo family planes. These orders were worth $72.2 billion, and the number of orders is a new record in aviation. The A320neo was announced in December 2010, and it got 667 orders. Together with the orders before that time, there were 1029 orders made within six months after the plane was launched, which is also a new record.
The first Airbus plane was the A300, the world's first twin-engined aircraft to have two aisles. A shorter version of the A300 is called the Airbus A310. Airbus launched the A320, which is special as it is the first commercial plane to use a digital fly-by-wire control system. The A320 has been, and still is, a very big success. The A318 and A319 are shorter versions, and the A321 is a longer version, of the A320. The A320's main rival is the Boeing 737 family.
The long-range wide-body planes, the Airbus A330 and the Airbus A340, have efficient wings, which also have winglets. The Airbus A340-500 can fly for , which is the second-longest range for any commercial plane, after the Boeing 777-200LR. All Airbus aircraft after the A320 have similar cockpits, which makes it easier to train pilots. Airbus stopped making A340s in 2011 because not enough planes were being sold compared to other planes like the Boeing 777.
Airbus is studying a replacement for the A320. This plane is called the Airbus NSR, for "New Short-Range aircraft". Those studies said that the NSR could burn 9–10% less fuel than the current A320. Instead of making a brand new plane, Airbus decided to make changes to the current A320 by adding winglets and other improvements. This updated type of A320 is called the "A320 Enhanced" and it should use 4–5% less fuel.
In July 2007, Airbus gave the last A300 to FedEx, which was when Airbus stopped making A300/A310s. 
Airbus made parts and helped maintain Concorde until it was retired in 2003.
Airbus Executive and Private Aviation is the part of Airbus which makes private jets. After Boeing started the Boeing Business Jet, Airbus made the A319 Corporate Jet in 1997. As of December 2008, 121 corporate and private jets are being used and 164 aircraft have been ordered.
In the late 1990s Airbus became interested in designing and selling aircraft to the military. Airbus made planes for aerial refuelling with the Airbus A310 MRTT and the Airbus A330 MRTT, and tactical airlift with the A400M.
In January 1999, Airbus started another company, Airbus Military , to design and make a tactical transport aircraft, the Airbus Military A400M. The A400M was designed by several NATO members: Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Spain, Turkey, and the UK, so that these countries did not have to use foreign transport planes. The A400M has had many delays.
"* All models included."
"Data as of 31 May 2013."
Airbus is in a fierce rivalry with Boeing. NAirbus won more plane orders in 2003 and 2004. In 2005, Airbus got 1111 orders, and Boeing got 1029. In 2006, Airbus had its second-best year ever, when it got 824 orders. The year before that was even better. In August 2010, Airbus said that it would be making more A320 airliners, so that 40 would be made every month by 2012, when Boeing was making more 737s, so that 35 would be made every month.
As of April 2013, 7,264 Airbus aircraft are being used. There are 21% more Boeing aircraft than Airbus, because Airbus has not existed as long as Boeing. However, Airbus is catching up, as older Boeings are being retired.
Recently, more Boeing 777s have been sold than Airbus planes like the A330-300. The A330-200 is the main rival of the 767, and the A330-200 has sold more than the 767.
Airbus has also made the Airbus A350 XWB to be a rival to the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. This was done because airlines were asking Airbus to make a plane to rival the 787.
Boeing has complained that Airbus gets unfair help from European governments. However, Airbus has said that Boeing gets money illegally from the United States government, as the U.S. government buys many of Boeing's military products.
The WTO said in August 2010 and in May 2011 that Airbus was given unfair help by governments of European countries. In February 2011, the WTO found that Boeing had been given help by U.S. governments which broke the WTO rules.
Airbus has many different factories for different planes. These are:
Airbus uses the "Beluga" to move different parts of Airbus planes from one factory to the other. Boeing also uses some Boeing 747s to do this to transport parts for the 787. However, some parts of the Airbus A380 are too large to be carried by the Beluga. These big A380 parts are brought to Bordeaux on a ship. They are then taken to Toulouse on the Itinéraire à Grand Gabarit.
Airbus opened a factory in Tianjin, People's Republic of China in 2009.
Airbus started making a $350 million factory in Harbin, China in July 2009. When it is finished, 1,000 people will work there.
Airbus has started "Flightpath 2050", which will lower the amount of noise, CO and NOx made by Airbus planes.
Airbus has joined Honeywell and JetBlue Airways to lower the amount of pollution and how much oil planes need to use. They are trying to make a biofuel which could be used by 2030. 
Airbus recently had the first flight using special fuel. It used 60% kerosene and 40% gas to liquids (GTL) fuel. It gave out the same amount of carbon, but less sulphur. The special fuel worked with Airbus' engine, so this type of fuel should not need new engines. This flight is thought to be a good advance towards environmentally-friendly planes.
Airbus names its planes in a special way. The format is: the plane name, a dash, and a three-digit number.
The three-digit number after the plane name means the aircraft series, the company which makes the engines, and the version of the engines. For example, an A320-200 with version one International Aero Engines (IAE) V2500 engines would be called the A320-231.

</doc>
<doc id="18218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18218" title="Rapid City, South Dakota">
Rapid City, South Dakota

Rapid City is the second-largest city in the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in the western part of the state on the eastern edge of the Black Hills. Rapid City is the county seat of Pennington County.
It is a good starting point for the area around it, which is a tourist area. Local tourist sites include Mount Rushmore, the Black Hills, the Badlands, and Custer State Park.

</doc>
<doc id="18219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18219" title="Year without a Summer">
Year without a Summer

The Year without a Summer was 1816. The year before that, in 1815, a volcano had erupted in the Dutch East Indies. The volcano's name was Mount Tambora. The volcanic ash from the eruption spread across the world. It darkened the sky, and made the Earth's surface colder. 
In much of Europe and northern North America, summer never came. In New England and Germany, there were frozen lakes in the middle of June. Flowers never bloomed, and every day was cold. These places and China suffered famine.

</doc>
<doc id="18220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18220" title="Capitol building">
Capitol building

A capitol building (or just capitol) is a building in a capital city. People who control government work there to make laws. The building may have many offices. 
Some offices are for legislators, the people who make the laws. 
Some offices are for people who enforce laws, for example a president or governor. These people lead all people, and help them obey the laws.
Sometimes, there are offices for judges, people who help all people understand the laws. These judges are very powerful. A group of these judges can be called a supreme court or superior court.
Buildings similar to capitols are in other places. A smaller government like one in a county can be in a court house. A city government can be in a city hall.

</doc>
<doc id="18222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18222" title="Dissolve">
Dissolve

The word dissolve can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18224" title="Jersey City, New Jersey">
Jersey City, New Jersey

Jersey City is a city in the U.S. state of New Jersey. It is just across the Hudson River from New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="18225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18225" title="San Jose, California">
San Jose, California

San Jose is a city in Santa Clara County, California in the United States. It is the third biggest city in California, after Los Angeles and San Diego. It is the tenth biggest city in the United States. It is south of San Francisco. The city has about 1,000,000 people. It has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="18258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18258" title="Venus, Texas">
Venus, Texas

Venus, Texas is a town in the United States. Around 2,960 people lived there (about 1,981 males and 979 females) in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="18259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18259" title="Evergreen, Colorado">
Evergreen, Colorado

Evergreen, Colorado is a community in the United States, about 30 miles from Denver, Colorado.

</doc>
<doc id="18262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18262" title="Queens">
Queens

Queens is a borough of New York City and a county of New York State. It was named for Catherine of Braganza, the Queen of England and wife of King Charles II of England.
About 1.9 million people live in Queens and it is the largest borough of New York City in size and second in population. According to the United States census, Queens is the most ethnically diverse county in the USA. That means that it has the most people from different kinds of places, religions, and ethnic groups of any place in the USA. Large parts of Queens are urban and an equal part is suburban.
Queens is home to both of New York City's airports, LaGuardia Airport (LGA) and John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK). Queens is connected to the Bronx by three bridges: the Bronx Whitestone Bridge, the Throgs Neck Bridge and the Triborough Bridge. It is connected to Manhattan by two bridges and one tunnel: the Triborough Bridge, the Queensboro Bridge, and the Queens Midtown Tunnel.
Many controlled-access highways cross Queens, including I-495 (the Long Island Expressway), I-278 (the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway), and I-678 (the Van Wyck Expressway, pronounced Van Wike). Important state highways in Queens include the Grand Central Parkway, which becomes the Northern State Parkway when it crosses the Queens border into Nassau County.
Many New York City Subway lines go through Queens. The most famous is the Flushing Line, the 7 Train, which has the nickname "International Express" because it goes through many neighborhoods where many immigrants live. Other subway lines in Queens include the A Train, C Train, E Train, F Train, G Train, J Train, M Train, N Train, R Train, V Train, W Train, and Z Train.
Queens has a very large bus system that goes to all parts of the borough. Some bus routes go to Brooklyn, Manhattan, or the Bronx.
The Long Island Rail Road also has many stations in Queens. The Port Washington Line crosses northern Queens. There are busy stations at Woodside, Queens, Forest Hills, and Flushing. The central depot and main station for the railroad is in the neighborhood of Jamaica.
The New York Mets of the National League of Major League Baseball play in Citi Field in Queens. The U.S. Open, a famous and important tennis tournament, is played in Arthur Ashe Stadium in Flushing Meadows Park south of the baseball stadium.
Queens has dozens of neighborhoods and named areas. These include:
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="18265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18265" title="Toller Cranston">
Toller Cranston

Toller Cranston (April 20, 1949 – January 24, 2015) was a Canadian figure skater.
Cranston was born in Hamilton, Ontario. He grew up in Kirkland Lake, Ontario. He was Canadian champion six times, and, despite never coming higher than third at a world championship, he came first in the free skate four times. He was well-respected for his artistic ability, and is recognized as someone who brought a new level of artistry to men's figure skating.
He skated as a professional for many years, choreographed (designed movement patterns for) skating routines, and was a commentator (talked about events) on T.V. during skating events. Many people don't realize that Toller was also an extremely successful and talented fine art painter. He funded his career off the sale of his artworks, and continued to paint ferociously until the end of his days. 
After his retirement, Cranston lived in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. He was found dead at his home in San Miguel de Allende on the morning of January 24, 2015. He was 65 years old. His cause of death was later said to be a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="18266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18266" title="Montreal Canadiens">
Montreal Canadiens

The Montreal Canadiens are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). Their nickname is the "Habs" (short for the French "Habitants", early settlers in Quebec from France). They have won the Stanley Cup championship 24 times, more than any other team.
The Canadiens (who use the French spelling of "Canadian") were formed in 1909, as part of the National Hockey Association. 
They won their first Stanley Cup in 1916, with star players such as Edouard "Newsy" Lalonde and goaltender Georges Vezina. The Canadiens joined the NHL in 1917; Canadien Joe Malone won the first NHL scoring title (Art Ross Trophy). They won the Cup again in 1924, with players such as Billy Boucher. Howie Morenz was a big star in the early years of the NHL. He was a great skater. Morenz won the Hart Trophy, as the league's top player, three times. Goalie George Hainsworth played at the same time, and along with others such as Aurel Joliat, they won the Stanley Cup in 1930 and 1931.
It took 13 years before they won the Cup again. A young Maurice "The Rocket" Richard, star goalie Bill Durnan, Hector "Toe" Blake, and Elmer Lach led the Canadiens to the cup again in 1944, as well as 1946. Richard scored 50 goals in a 50-game season in 1944-45. No one did that again for 36 years. He led the NHL in goals five times.
The Canadiens became a very powerful team in the 1950s. Led by legendary center Jean Beliveau, Doug Harvey (who won seven Norris Trophies as best defence, six on Montreal), Bernie "Boom Boom" Geoffrion, Dickie Moore, Jacques Plante (who won seven Vezina Trophies for goalies), and Richard (along with his younger brother, Henri, the "Pocket Rocket"), the team won the Cup in 1953, and five times in a row, 1956 through 1960. They won again in 1965, 1966, 1968, and 1969.
New players led the team in the 1970s: Guy Lafleur, Ken Dryden, Bob Gainey, Larry Robinson, and Yvon Cournoyer led them to the cup in 1971, 1973, and four times in a row, 1976 through 1979. By 1979, they had won the Stanley Cup 16 times in 27 years.

</doc>
<doc id="18268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18268" title="Hockey">
Hockey

Hockey is a type of sport in which players try to get points by hitting an object into the other team's goal with a stick.Others believe hockey came from the French word “hoquet” which means shepherd's stick. James Creighton, an engineer who learned how to play the game of hockey while living in Nova Scotia, is credited for bringing the game to a new level. He taught his friends at McGill University in Montreal how to play the game. There are three main ways that hockey is played.
Evidence exists that shows ancient Aztecs, Greeks and Romans played similar forms of the game. The modern game of field hockey came to fruition in the mid-19th century in Great Britain. The British army brought the game to its colonies, and the first international competition took place in 1895.

</doc>
<doc id="18270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18270" title="Tyresta National Park">
Tyresta National Park

Tyresta National Park is a small national park in Sweden. It only has about 50 square kilometers (or 19 square miles) of land. It is located near the capital city of Stockholm. A large fire burned almost 10 percent of the park in 1999, but the animals and plants have come back and are now doing fine.

</doc>
<doc id="18276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18276" title="St. Basil's Cathedral">
St. Basil's Cathedral

St. Basil's Cathedral, also known as the Cathedral of Intercession, is a very famous cathedral in Moscow, Russia was commissioned by Ivan IV (Ivan the Terrible), for Saint Basil the Blessed. It is in the area called Red Square. It was built in 1555-1560.
The cathedral is very magnificent. It has 8 distinctive onion-shaped towers. The building itself is made up of separate chapels. There is a ninth spire in the middle, forming an eight-point star. The Cathedral should not be mistaken for the Moscow Kremlin.
The cathedral has escaped destruction many times. Napoleon Bonaparte decided to take it to Paris, but such an undertaking would have been impossible. Instead, he ordered it to be demolished. Explosives were lit, but torrential rain suddenly started, extinguishing the fuses. Joseph Stalin also ordered it to be destroyed, since it interfered with parades. However, his architect stood on the stairs and demanded that he leave the cathedral, or he would slit his own throat then and there. Miraculously, Stalin agreed. The city of Moscow also caught fire numerous times, and the cathedral wasn't spared. Even so, it still stands to this very day.

</doc>
<doc id="18286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18286" title="Newport">
Newport

Newport is a city in the southeast of Wales, Great Britain. It is in the county of Monmouthshire, and in the historic Welsh kingdom of Gwent. Its name in Welsh is Casnewydd. It is the third biggest city in Wales. Newport became a city in 2002. About 140,000 people live in Newport.
A few years ago, Newport had lots of people working in the steel factory and other heavy industries. This has changed, now many people work in electronics, such as making computers, phones and microchips.

</doc>
<doc id="18287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18287" title="Monmouthshire">
Monmouthshire

Monmouthshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. From the end of the Middle Ages until the year 1974 Monmouthshire was a part of England for some things and a part of Wales for other things. Then in 1972 Parliament decided that it was going to be in Wales from 1974 onwards.
The chief town in the area is Newport. Other important towns are Cwmbran, where the county council meets, Monmouth, the county town and Abergavenny.

</doc>
<doc id="18299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18299" title="Death grunt">
Death grunt

A death grunt is when a singer uses a scream which is very low and deep. It is used in many types of music, but usually death metal. In many people's opinions, it is hard to understand the death grunt. However, some people who listen to them a lot think they are not so hard to understand. Some people believe that death grunts in music sound "scary", so they do not like them.
Bands that use death growls include Necrophagist, Morbid Angel, Opeth, and many more.
Bands that use higher screams that come from the throat include Escape the Fate, Alesana and Greeley Estates.
Other terms for death grunts are death growls, harsh vocals, and unclean vocals.

</doc>
<doc id="18300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18300" title="Clique">
Clique

A clique is a small group of people who like the same things. Sometimes, people use the word clique to talk about groups of young people. The word is also used to talk about groups of adults, usually groups of politicians.
In a clique there are leaders and followers. A clique may also have people they do not like. Such people are called outcasts. The outcasts were followers, then they were not liked.

</doc>
<doc id="18301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18301" title="Goth subculture">
Goth subculture

A goth is a person who listens to gothic music. Goths often wear black clothes and unusual jewelry. Both goth men and goth women often wear make-up.
The "goth subculture" originated in the early 1980s among fans of the first gothic rock group, Bauhaus.
The word Goth comes from the word "Gothic" which actually means "gloomy" or "dark". This meaning of the word comes from "gothic fiction", a type of literature popular during the late 18th and early 19th century. 
People who call themselves a Goth are those who live up the meaning of the name through wearing clothes or putting on makeup that is in colours that represent death, decay, or gloominess, such as the colour black, deathly white face makeup, dark bloody red colours, or the tones of the colour puce.
Goth people also make and listen to "Goth music".
Goths wear normal black clothes and mix them with other colours to make a new look
Goth people are often mistaken to be emo or punk because of the everyday stereotypes. 

</doc>
<doc id="18302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302" title="Cigarette">
Cigarette

Cigarettes can be any dried leaf that people roll in thin paper to smoke, but the word is most often used to refer ones with dried tobacco leaves. The nicotine in the tobacco can be addictive to people. The nicotine from cigarettes makes people want to smoke more, even if they do not like the taste or its other effects. The smoke also has other things that are bad for people's health. Many countries have laws saying who can smoke tobacco cigarettes and where they can smoke them. They can cause lung cancer, heart disease and many other diseases. Most packs of cigarettes have warning labels on them. 
Smokers have symptoms such as frequent coughing, chest pain, and breathlessness. Doctors say that people should not smoke, as it can harm almost every organ in the body.
Cigarette smoke contains many harmful substances. Among them are nicotine, tar, carcinogens and carbon monoxide.

</doc>
<doc id="18306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306" title="Gdańsk">
Gdańsk

Gdańsk is a city in the north of Poland in Pomeranian Voivodeship, near the place where the Vistula river meets the Baltic Sea. It is Poland's 6th largest city (population of 500 000 people) and the largest and most important sea port.
It has existed since the 10th century and many times played a very important role in Poland's history. In the 19th century it was part of Prussia. This is where Solidarity, the movement which helped end Communist rule in Central and Eastern Europe, came to life.
Gdansk has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).
The sixth Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="18309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18309" title="Montserrat">
Montserrat

Montserrat is a Caribbean island. It is an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. Montserrat got its name from Christopher Columbus in 1493. The governor of Montserrat is Deborah Barnes-Jones. The capital is officially Plymouth, but the government has moved to Brades after a volcano, Chances Peak, destroyed Plymouth in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="18312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18312" title="Malawi">
Malawi

Malawi ("Republic of Malawi") is a country in south-east Africa. It has borders with the countries of Tanzania, Zambia, and Mozambique. The capital of Malawi is Lilongwe and the spoken languages are English and the official language Chichewa. The total size is about 118480 km² and there are about 100 people per km². The official language of Malawi is English. The country is also called "The Warm Heart of Africa". Malawi is one of the smallest countries in Africa. Lake Malawi takes about a third of Malawi's area.
Bantu people started living in Malawi in the 10th century. In 1891 the area became a colony of the United Kingdom. In 1953 Malawi, then called as Nyasaland, as a protectorate of the United Kingdom, became a almost independent country called Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. The Federation was ended in 1963. In 1964 the protection of the United Kingdom over Nyasaland was ended. Nyasaland became an independent country which was ruled by Queen Elizabeth and was called Malawi. Two years later it became a republic. After getting independence it became a one-party rule which was ruled by Hastings Banda. He was president until 1994. Peter Mutharika is the current president. Malawi has a democratic, many party government. Malawi has a small military: army, a navy and an air support. Malawi has good relations with Western countries and most countries in the world. Malawi has joined some international organizations.
Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world. Economy is based in farming. Most of the population live in field areas. Country gets aid from other countries. Government has a hard time building and expanding the economy and develop health care, education and environment safety. Since 2005 some programs have been developed to focus on these problems.
Malawi has a low life expectancy and high infant mortality. People become ill with AIDS. Africans, Asians and Europeans are living in the country and they speak in different languages.
People have lived in the area of Malawi for thousands of years. At first they were hunter-gatherers. Bantu groups came to the area around the 10th century. Most of the Bantu grups went to south but some started living there and made ethnic groups based on familiar race.
By 1500 AD groups came together and made Maravi empire, which streched from north of what is now Nkhotakota to the Zambezi River and from Lake Malawi to the Luangwa River in what is now Zambia.
After 1600 the area was united under one ruler and began trading and making connection with Portuguese traders and members of the military through the Mozambican port which was occupied by Portuguese. By 1700 the empire had broken up into areas that were controlled by individual groups of people which was known by the Portuguese by collecting information. The Swahili-Arab slave trade had its highest amount in the middle of 1800s when about 20,000 people were forced to become slaves and were sold every year.
In 1859 British explorer David Livingstone found Lake Malawi (then it was called Lake Nyasa) and thought that Shire Highlands to the south of the lake was a good place for Europeans to make a colony. Many British missions were done in the area in the 1860s and 1870s. The African Lakes Company Limited was made in 1878 to set up a trade and transport that helped with the missions, and a small mission and trading area was made at Blantyre in 1876 and a British Consul started living there in 1883. 
Malawi became an independent country in 6 July 1964. Hastings Banda became the first president. Constitution made Malawi become a republic and one-party state. Banda's Malawi Congress Party (MCP) was the only legal party in the country. In 1971, Banda became president for life. For almost 30 years, Banda ruled over a harsh government which kept Malawi out from war.
Banda showed how a poor country with no access to sea, big population and no minerals can develop farming and industries. Banda made a business empire that produced one-third of the country's GDP and used 10% of the workers who got paid. All money made by Banda was used to develop Malawi. 
Under pressure for free politics, Banda held an referendum in 1993, where population voted for many party, democratic government. In late 1993 a presidential council was made, president for life was ended and new constitution was put in place, ending MCP rule. In 1994 the first many party elections were held in Malawi, and Banda was defeated by Bakili Muluzi. 

</doc>
<doc id="18319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18319" title="Electromagnetic radiation">
Electromagnetic radiation

Electromagnetic waves are waves that contain an electric field and a magnetic field and carry energy. They travel at the speed of light.
Quantum mechanics developed from the study of electromagnetic waves, which include visible light seen in the colors of the rainbow, but also other waves including the more energetic and higher frequency waves like ultraviolet light, x-rays, and gamma rays plus the waves with longer wavelengths including infrared waves, microwaves and radio waves.
Some types of electromagnetic radiation, such as X-rays, are ionizing radiation and can be harmful to your body. 
Ultraviolet rays are near the violet end of the light spectrum and infrared are near the red end. Infrared rays are heat rays and ultraviolet rays cause sunburn.
The various parts of the electromagnetic spectrum differ in wavelength, frequency and quantum energy. 
Sound waves are not electromagnetic waves but waves of pressure in air, water or any other substance.
In physics, it is well known that the wave equation for a typical wave is
formula_1
The problem now is to prove that Maxwell's equations explicitly prove that the electric and magnetic fields create electromagnetic radiation. Recall that two of Maxwell's equations are given by
formula_2
formula_3
By evaluating the curl of the above equations and vector calculus one can prove the following equations
formula_4
formula_5
Note: the proof involves making the substitution 
formula_6
The equations above are analogous to the wave equation, by replacing f with E and B. The above equations mean that propagations through the magnetic (B) and electric (E) fields will produce waves. 

</doc>
<doc id="18322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18322" title="Saint Vincent and the Grenadines">
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. It is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States and CARICOM.
The country speaks English as its official language. The capital, and its main port, is Kingstown.
Its national bird is the Saint Vincent Amazon, an endemic bird of the Saint Vincent island.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy with Queen Elizabeth II as head of state. The Queen does not live in the islands but she is represented in the country by the Governor-General, currently Sir Frederick Ballantyne.
Control of the government rests with the elected prime minister and his or her cabinet. The current Prime Minister is Ralph Gonsalves.
The country has no formal armed forces, although the police has a Special Service Unit that has a supporting role on the island.
The Parliament is unicameral is formed only by the House of Assembly with 21 seats: 15 representatives elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms and 6 appointed senators. The last elections were held on 13 December 2010 and the next will be held in 2015.
The island now known as Saint Vincent was originally named "Youloumain" by the native Caribs. The Caribs inhabited Saint Vincent before the Europeans arrived, and it is possible still to find Carib artifacts in the island.
Christopher Columbus explored in 1498 the main island on Saint Vincent's Day. The Caribs did not allowed Europeans to settle in Saint Vincent until 1719 when some French people came from Martinique and began to grow coffee, tobacco, indigo, cotton and sugar cane with the help of African slaves.
In 1763 by the Treaty of Paris, France gave control of Saint Vincent to Britain; France took the island again in 1779, but the British then regained Saint Vincent under the Treaty of Versailles (1783).
In 1834 slavery was abolished and people from the portuguese island of Madeira and from India came to work as agricultural workers.
In 1871 the group of islands became part of the Windward Islands Colony and in 1956 a member of the Federation of the Windward Islands. In 1958 Saint Vincent joined the Federation of the West Indies and in 1969 it got full internal self government. Finally in 1979 it became an Independent Sovereign State within the Commonwealt.
The estimated population in 2003 was 103,220. The population density is 265 persons per square kilometre.
The ethnic composition was 66% Black, 19% Mixed, 6.0% East Indian, 4.0% European (mainly Portuguese), 2.0% Carib Amerindian, 3.0% others.
The official language of the islands is English but most people use the Vicentian Creole English.
The people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was 75% Protestant (47% Anglicans, 28% Methodists), 13% Catholics, 12% other (Hindu, Seventh-Day Adventists, other Protestant).
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a group of islands of the Caribbean Sea. It lies to the west of Barbados, south of Saint Lucia and north of Grenada in the Windward Islands of the Lesser Antilles.
There are 32 islands and cays, including the main island of Saint Vincent () and the northern two-thirds of the Grenadines (), which are a chain of small islands stretching south from Saint Vincent to Grenada. The largest and most populated Grenadines islands are Bequia, Mustique, Canouan and Union Island.
The main island of Saint Vincent, at , is long and wide, and has an area of , or about 88% of the total country area, 19 times that of the country's second largest island Bequia. It is dominated by the highest mountain in the country and an active volcano, La Soufrière (), which erupted violently in 1812 and 1902. The most recent eruption was on April 13, 1979. The island has many mountains and forests. The island is tropical humid, with an average of between 18 and 31 °C depending on the altitude.
The Saint Vincent Passage is between the Saint Lucia and Saint Vincent islands, and the Bequia Channel is between the Grenadines and Saint Vincent islands.
The Grenadines islands lie between the islands of Saint Vincent in the north and Grenada in the south. Neither Saint Vincent nor Grenada are Grenadine islands. The islands north of the Martinique Channel belong to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the islands south of the channel belong to Grenada.
These islands make up the Grenadines Parish
Administratively, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is divided into six parishes. Five parishes are on Saint Vincent, while the sixth is made up of the Grenadine islands. Kingstown is located in the Parish of Saint George and is the capital city and central administrative centre of the country.
Tropical rainforest climate is a type of tropical climate in which there is no dry season - all months have mean precipitation values of at least . Tropical rainforest climates have no pronounced summer or winter; it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent.
The Köppen climate classification subtype for this climate is Af (Tropical Rainforest Climate).
The average yearly temperature is . The coolest months are between November and February. During the rainy season, May through October, rain is frequent in the mountains of St. Vincent with the annual average rainfall being away from the coast and on the coast.

</doc>
<doc id="18326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18326" title="Adolph Rupp">
Adolph Rupp

Adolph Frederick Rupp (September 2, 1901-December 10, 1977) was one of the most successful college basketball coaches in history. He coached the University of Kentucky's basketball team from 1930 to 1972, 42 years. He helped the team win 4 national NCAA championships. Rupp Arena in Lexington, Kentucky is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="18327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18327" title="Miami Dolphins">
Miami Dolphins

The Miami Dolphins is an American football club in the National Football League team based in Miami, Florida, USA. The Dolphins began playing in 1966 and in 1972 they had the only perfect season in NFL history and won a Super Bowl, with Bob Griese leading the team as quarterback. Another quarterback, Dan Marino, is a more recent famous player from this club. The Miami Dolphins stadium is Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens, Fl.

</doc>
<doc id="18329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18329" title="Oksana Grishuk">
Oksana Grishuk

Oksana Vladimirovna Grishuk (born March 17, 1972 in Odessa, Ukraine) is a Russian retired ice dancer. She and her partner, Evgeny Platov, won two Olympic gold medals and four world championships.
Grishuk began training in skating at the age of four. She moved to Moscow in 1986, and studied at the Sport University from 1988 to 1992.
After they won the gold medal in the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, Platov decided to skate as a professional with a different partner, Maya Usova, so Grishuk began skating professionally alone. 

</doc>
<doc id="18330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18330" title="Evgeny Platov">
Evgeny Platov

Evgeny Platov (born August 7, 1967, Odessa, Ukraine).
He was a Russian dancer, and began skating when he was nine years old. He studied at the Physical Institute of Culture in Moscow. 
Platov won two Olympic gold medals and four world championships with his partner, Oksana Grishuk 
After the 1998 Olympics in Nagano, Japan, Platov started skating as a professional with a different partner, Maya Usova, until he retired from performing in 2002. He is now a coach at Princeton Sports Center in Princeton, New Jersey. 

</doc>
<doc id="18333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18333" title="Tetris">
Tetris

Tetris is a video game developed in the Soviet Union in 1984. The goal is to drop blocks, called tetrominoes, down into a playing field to make lines. Tetriminoes are made of four connected squares each, and there are seven different shapes of tetrominoes. A player uses the tetrominoes to make unbroken lines of squares across the bin from left to right by stacking them in the playing field. When a player makes a line, it clears. After a clear, squares over that line fall. As play goes on, the tetrominoes fall faster.
"Tetris" has appeared in many video game systems. It has become very common from back when Alexey Pajitnov first made it in 1984. Over 100 million copies of the game have been sold
The goal is to drop blocks, called tetrominoes, down into a playing field to make lines. Tetriminoes are made of four connected squares each There are seven different types of tetrominoes. Levels have a set goal, or number of lines to clear. When the goal number reaches zero, the player moves to the next level. As the levels go up, the tetrominoes fall faster. A player receives bonus points if he can clear more than one line with a single tetromino. Clearing four lines is called a "tetris", three lines a "triple" and two lines a "double". Clearing two tetrises in a row is called a back-to-back tetris. The player can also turn a T-shaped tetromino into a hole, called a T-slot, to get more points. This move is called a "T-spin". A player loses when the tetrominoes make it to the top of the playing field. See "Issues" for information on the Level 29 Problem.
On the "Game Boy", there are several musical themes played. The theme for level 1 is often called the "Tetris Theme". It is actually a Russian dance called "Korobeiniki", or "the Peddlers." Other themes include music by Johann Sebastian Bach and the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy.
When one reaches Level 29 on the GBA or DS, the level starts to offer pieces that seem to fall indefinitely fast, hence disallowing the player to move in a lock, or quite possibly, move the tetrominoes at all. This means that all the uncontrolled pieces will pile up on the playfield and cause the player to top out.

</doc>
<doc id="18336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18336" title="Moldova">
Moldova

Moldova is a country in Eastern Europe. Its full name is the Republic of Moldova (, .) It used to be called Moldavia.
The official language in Moldova is the Moldovan language, which is very similar to the Romanian language. The capital of Moldova is Chișinău.
The Moldova economy's growth is around 7 per-cent, and has the third fastest growing economy of Europe. But in this respect the average monthly salary/wages are still low standing at only $243 USD. Moldova is an associated country for future membership in the EU.

</doc>
<doc id="18338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18338" title="Polish">
Polish

Polish can mean:
When written with upper-case "P":
When written with lower-case "p":

</doc>
<doc id="18339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18339" title="Polish language">
Polish language

Polish () is the official language of Poland. It is the most widely spoken Western Slavic language and the second largest Slavic language after Russian.
In history, Polish was an important language in Central and Eastern Europe. Today, Polish is spoken by over 38.5 million people as their first language in Poland. It is also spoken as a second language in western parts of Belarus, Lithuania, and Ukraine. Because of the emigration from Poland during different time periods, millions of Polish speakers can be found in countries such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom, United States, and so on. There are over 50 million Polish language speakers around the world.
There are 9 letters in Polish which English does not have. They look like English letters with marks above or below them.
In lower case, the 9 letters are: ą ć ę ł ń ś ó ź ż
In upper case, the 9 letters are: Ą Ć Ę Ł Ń Ś Ó Ź Ż
There are 3 English letters which are not used in Polish: q, v, x.
There are 7 combinations of 2 letters which are like a single letter sound (similar to "th" or "qu" in English). These include "ch", "cz", "dz", "dź", "dż", "rz", "sz".
Many letters have the same sound in Polish and English, for instance "f", "m", and others. But other letters sound different, for instance Polish "w" sounds like an English "v", while Polish "ł" sounds like an English "w". There are also some Polish sounds which do not exist in English, and some English sounds which do not exist in Polish.
The vowels "ą" and "ę" are nasal, which means people pronounce them blowing air partly out of the nose as well as the mouth.
Most words are pronounced with an accent on the next-to-last syllable. For instance the Polish word "student" (which means the same as the English word) is pronounced with the accent on "stu" ("STU-dent"), while "studenci" (the plural form of "student") is pronounced with the accent on "den" (stu-DEN-ci).
The Polish language has several dialects, but less so than most European languages. There are small differences in "standard" Polish, but all speakers can understand one another, and non-native speakers often cannot notice the differences.
The grammar is complex, and has some features which do not appear in English.
Like many languages, Polish has grammatical gender. A table ("stół") is masculine, a book ("książka") is feminine, and a window ("okno") is neuter.
Nouns and adjectives and verbs have many endings, depending on their role in a sentence. There are 7 cases or roles which a noun can have in a Polish sentence, each with its own ending. The endings also depend on the gender of the noun.
Word order is more free in Polish, partly because the noun endings help people understand the role of the word. In English, "The boy bites the dog" is quite different from "The dog bites the boy", but in Polish people could use either order without confusion.
Dzień dobry (Dz'yehn DOH-brih) - "Good morning" or "Good afternoon"
Dobry wieczór (DOH-brih v-YETCH-oor) - "Good evening'
Do widzenia (doh vee-DZEN-yah) - "Good bye"
Cześć! (tsheshch) - "Hi", "Hello!" or "Bye"
Tak (tahk) - "Yes" (in Polish people may not say long-short answers - like "Yes, I did" Tak is enough)
Nie (nyeh) - "No" or "Not" (in Polish people may not say long-short answers - like "No, I won't" Nie is enough)
Jak się masz? (yahk shyeh mahsh) - "How do you do?"
Co robisz? (tsoh robish) - "What you doing?"
Jak się nazywasz? (YAHK shyeh nahZYvash) or Jak masz na imię? (YAHK mahsh nah EE-myeng/EE-myeh) - "What's your name?"
Nazywam się... (nah-ZIH-vahm shyeh) - "My (name and) surname is..."
Mam na imię... (mahm nah EE-myeng/EE-myeh) - "My (given) name is..."
Nie mówię po polsku (nyeh MOW-vyeng/MOW-vyeh poh POL-skoo) - "I do not speak Polish"
Lubię Cię (loo-bee-EH chyeh) - "I like you"
Kocham Cię (koh-hahm chyeh) - "I love you"
Nie mówię po angielsku (nyeh MOW-vyeng/MOW-vyeh poh ahng-YEL-skoo) - "I do not speak English"
Jak dojechać na lotnisko/dworzec (yak do-YEH-khatch nah lot-NEE-sco/dvo-ZHETS) - "Hot to get the airport/rail station?"(where dworzec - "station" means "rail station" by default)

</doc>
<doc id="18341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18341" title="Georgia">
Georgia

Georgia could mean either of two things:

</doc>
<doc id="18342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18342" title="Kryptos">
Kryptos

Kryptos is the name of a sculpture (art that is like a statue) on the grounds of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Langley, Virginia, USA. Kryptos is very famous. It has codes (secret hidden messages) on it. There are four messages. People know what three of the messages say. No one knows what the fourth message says yet.
A man named Jim Sanborn made "Kryptos" in 1990. Kryptos is in a garden in the middle of a building called CIA Headquarters. 
Not very many people have seen "Kryptos", because only a few people are allowed to go into the CIA building. They do very important work at the CIA, and have to be very careful.
The word Kryptos comes from the Greek language. It means "hidden".
The sculpture is about 12 feet high and 20 feet long. It is made of metal and different kinds of rocks. It has thousands of letters and other things written in the metal. 
The first person to find out what the first three messages say, was Jim Gillogly. He learned the answers in 1999. After he said what the answer was, the CIA said that a man who works at the CIA, David Stein, knew the answer too. A few years later the NSA (another agency in Washington D.C.) said that they had people who had solved it too.
Before he made "Kryptos", Jim Sanborn had not made any other sculptures with letters on them. After "Kryptos" he made many other sculptures with letters on them. Some of them have secret messages. One is called Antipodes. There are two copies of Antipodes. One belongs to a man in California. The other is in a museum in Washington DC called the Hirshhorn Museum. 
Another sculpture that Sanborn made which has secret messages is called the "Cyrillic Projector". It has secret messages in Russian. The Cyrillic Projector was independently cracked by Michael Bales and Frank Corr in 2003.
There are two famous books that talk about "Kryptos", which were written by Dan Brown. He wrote a book in 2003 called "The Da Vinci Code". On the cover of the book is art. In the art there are secret messages. Two of the messages talk about "Kryptos". Dan Brown wrote another book in 2009 called "The Lost Symbol", which also talks about "Kryptos".

</doc>
<doc id="18343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18343" title="Lech Wałęsa">
Lech Wałęsa

Lech Walesa (Polish: Lech Wałęsa (pronounced [lɛx vaˈwɛ̃sa]) (born September 29, 1943) was a Polish shipyard worker and a politician who used to be the leader of Solidarity and the President of Poland. Walesa won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="18344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18344" title="List of Dutch football teams">
List of Dutch football teams

These are some Dutch football (soccer) teams.
Season 2012/13

</doc>
<doc id="18345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18345" title="Charles de Gaulle">
Charles de Gaulle

General Charles-André-Joseph-Marie de Gaulle (22 November 1890 - 9 November 1970) was a French military and political leader. He was president of France from 1959 to 1969, and was a founding member and leader of the French Resistance during the Second World War. He died of an aneurysm.

</doc>
<doc id="18348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18348" title="Sumatran tiger">
Sumatran tiger

The Sumatran tiger ("Panthera tigris sumatrae") is the smallest tiger subspecies and is currently listed as critically endangered because of it being hunted down for its fur and other body parts. They are also in danger because their natural habitats are being cleared out. It is estimated that there are only about 350-400 Sumatran tigers left in the wild.
The Sumatran tiger is found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, where the Sumatran tiger can be found from low and highland areas, to mountainous jungles and peat swamp forests.
Like other tiger subspecies, the Sumatran tiger has deep orange fur with black stripes. Every tiger has its own pattern of stripes, with none being the same. The Sumatran tiger has very long back legs, which allow it to jump great distances. Even though they are the smallest of the tiger subspecies, Sumatran tigers are still very large, reaching to the length of 9 feet (2.7 meters), and weighing up to 165-250 pounds (75–114 kg). Sumatran tigers have webbed feet. This allows them to swim easily.
The Sumatran tiger is found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, where the Sumatran tiger can be found from low and highland areas, to mountainous jungles and peat swamp forests.
Sumatran tigers ambush their prey, using their long, powerful legs, jaws, and claws to catch and kill their prey. They have extremely good eyesight and hearing, which helps them to find their prey. Sumatran tigers feed mainly on wild boar and deer, and they can eat more than 40 pounds of meat at a time.
Female Sumatran tigers reach maturity at the age of around three to four years, and the males turn mature at the age of around four to five years. Females are pregnant for about 95–110 days, and the females give birth in hidden and private areas and raise the cubs alone. They give birth to around 2-3 cubs at a time, but they can sometimes give birth to six cubs. The cubs’ eyes are closed at birth, and they don’t open fully until the cub is one or two weeks old. Cubs feed on milk for three to six months and start hunting with their mother at the age of about five or six months. They will stay with their mother until they are fully able to hunt on their own, which doesn’t happen until the cubs are at least 18 months to 2 years old. In the wild, Sumatran tigers live an average of 15 years.

</doc>
<doc id="18356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18356" title="American Film Institute">
American Film Institute

The American Film Institute (AFI) is an independent, organization that is designed not to make money created by the National Endowment for the Arts, which was started in 1967 when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act.
George Stevens, Jr. was the first CEO. Since 1980, Jean Picker Firstenberg has been CEO.
Older figures in AFI's Conservatory train newer people.
The institute also wants to keep old film, which could soon be destroyed.
Even though its name only mentions film, AFI also works on television and video.
In 1973, the AFI began handing out Life Achievement Awards.
In 1998, when American cinema had existed for 100 years, AFI began its 100 Years Series, which helped people become interested in the history of movies.
Recently, it built and started the AFI Silver theatre in Silver Spring, Maryland near Washington, D.C.
In honour of the hundredth birthday of American cinema, the AFI has made several lists of the best movie-related things:

</doc>
<doc id="18366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18366" title="Fullback">
Fullback

A fullback or full back is the name of a defensive position in a football (soccer) game. A fullback is also an offensive position in American football that usually blocks for the quarterback or a running back.

</doc>
<doc id="18368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368" title="Antonio Meucci">
Antonio Meucci

Antonio Meucci (Florence, April 13, 1808 – October 18, 1889) was an Italian inventor. He invented of one of the first types of telephone developed a voice communication apparatus in 1857. In 2002, the United States House of Representatives ruled that he invented the first working telephone, although Alexander Graham Bell was first to patent it.

</doc>
<doc id="18369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18369" title="8 Mile">
8 Mile

8 Mile is a 2002 American drama movie starring rapper Eminem, Kim Basinger, Brittany Murphy and Mekhi Phifer. It is set in 1995 in Detroit, Michigan.
The film tells about a young white rapper living in inner city Detroit. He tries to make a rap career but most rappers are African Americans.
The film was a critical and financial success. Eminem won the Academy Award for Best Original Song for "Lose Yourself".

</doc>
<doc id="18370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18370" title="African-American people">
African-American people

An African American generally refers to a person who lives in the United States and speaks English, but whose ancestors were from Africa. It could also describe a first-generation African immigrant to the United States who has American citizenship.
The term is usually associated with "black people". This is because of many African-Americans' dark skin. Many Africans were brought to the United States as slaves. A large amount of the U.S. population (especially in many urban or city areas) is African-American. Outside of urban areas, there is also a wide rural area from Maryland to East Texas that has a lot of African-Americans living there. Detroit has the highest percent of blacks in the nation.
African-American refers to a specific range of diverse cultures with a common thread of ethnic connection to Africa. This term was created to describe an ethnic/cultural link to Africa for people who are American, much as in the case of Italian Americans, Irish Americans, or Polish Americans. The difference is that Italian Americans and Polish Americans know they are Americans of Italian or Polish (not general European) descent. 
The 'African' in African-American acknowledges the connection to a number of African cultures, not one in particular. The 'American' shows the nationality and culture of the United States. A person born in Nigeria is still Nigerian even if he or she comes to the United States and lives here for the rest of their life. If that person wants to say that they are an American citizen, they would simply say "I am an American citizen". His American-born children could correctly call themselves Nigerian-American OR African-American.
With their American born children came the first generation of English speaking African Americans. But this development was not the same all over the country. For example; even today the Gullah People of the Sea Islands off the Carolina and Georgia coasts still speak a language that is a blend of several African languages. They are the descendants of slaves from different countries in Africa. 
In the United States when Americans say African-American or Black, they are referring to the same people. Both terms describe an ethnic group that came to exist in the United States. The Africans who were brought to America as slaves were from different nationalities and did not all speak the same language. They became a new blended ethnic group with a new language that was not their own: English. 
Blacks used to be segregated in schools but since the 1960s were able to join major schools, colleges and universities. In the second half of the 20th century, reading-ability rates for blacks increased.
In America, and from an American point of view, the term 'Black' is often applied to other ethnic groups throughout the world who do not necessarily see themselves as Black. African American culture was born in the United States and is distinct from any single African culture. 
African-American is a term that many Black people chose to call themselves because they found the term "Negro" offensive. 
In America there are many immigrants of mixed race that includes African descent, like Cape Verdeans, Dominicans and Puerto Ricans. These groups, by and large, do not think of themselves as Black or African American and object to these labels. 
Many mixed race Americans also resist pressure to identify themselves as Black or White.
African Americans have influenced various forms of music, including Hip hop, R&B, funk, rock and roll, soul, blues, and other contemporary American musical forms while older black forms of music included blues, doo-wop, barbershop, ragtime, bluegrass, jazz, and gospel music. Michael Jackson, an African-American pop singer, released an album called "Thriller" in 1982 which is the best-selling album of all time. In the nineties Beyonce Knowles became famous as the lead singer of the R&B girl band Destiny's Child. In the 2000s she started releasing music on her own. Her first album "Dangerously in Love" sold 11 million copies and won five Grammy Awards.
Soul food is a cuisine popular with African Americans. The most famous example of soul food is fried chicken.
Black culture has been the subject of documentaries. For example, the award-winning "Black Is, Black Ain't" explores black identity. "Good Hair" discusses the significance of having 'good hair' for black women in American culture.
There is a National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington D.C.
Protestant Christianity is the most practised religion by African Americans.

</doc>
<doc id="18372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18372" title="Pol Pot">
Pol Pot

Saloth Sar (better known as Pol Pot; January 25, 1925 – April 15, 1998) was the leader of Cambodia between 1975 and 1979. He was the leader of a group called the Khmer Rouge, a group of peasant revolutionaries who turned Cambodia into a military dictatorship officially called Democratic Kampuchea. Between 1.7 and 2.2 million Cambodians were killed by his regime. Pol Pot was thrown out of power in January, 1979, when the Vietnamese Communists liberated Kampuchea.
Pol Pot's family was a good family, and really connected with the royal family. His brother, Loth Suong, was a palace clerk, and his cousin was a wife to Prince Sisowat Monivong and had a son named Kossarak. His connection helped him get a scholarship to France.
His father's name was Pen Saloth and his mother's name was Sok Nem. Pol Pot had eight siblings. His family was thriving, but alone. 
Pol Pot's childhood was fairly normal. Pol Pot's real name is Saloth Sar. No one knows his real birthday, but two guesses are 1925 or May 25, 1928. He grew up in a nice place, and his village was about two miles from Kompong Thom's capital. Kompong Thom was a province of Cambodia. Back then, that part of Cambodia was part of France.
In 1949, he went to France and studied about radio electronics, but got distracted and led astray because of Marxism, which is a form of communism. He didn't study, and his scholarship was taken away. In 1953, he went back to Cambodia and became a communist. The following year, Cambodia became free from France.
In 1962, he became the leader of Communist party in Cambodia. This party was hidden, as the prince, Prince Sihanouk, did not like Pol Pot nor the Communists. 
Pol Pot went to the jungle and created a guerrilla force called the Khmer Rouge (the Khmer are the main ethnic group in Cambodia, and "rouge" is French for "red", the colour of Communism). The Khmer Rouge was made of mostly teenagers. Guerilla means that they hid and ambushed people, rather than be visible and directly attack their enemies. They were the source of Pol Pot's power. 
In 1969-1973 the U.S. bombed Cambodian sanctuaries attempting to get rid of the North Vietnamese, but only drove them deeper into the country. The US also made it so that the peasants ran to cities. 
In 1970, the U.S. got rid of Prince Sihanouk and unknowingly made Pol Pot more popular. They also made Prince Sihanouk mad, and so he joined Pol Pot, but that alliance only gave Pol Pot an advantage. This created a whole lot of confusion, and only made Pol Pot even more popular.
On April 17, 1975, Pol Pot went into Phnom Penh, the capital, and took control. He planned for a "super great leap forward", inspired by Mao's Great Leap Forward in China. The second in command was Noun Chea, also called "Brother Number said later that the mass killing was a mistake. Pol Pot took all the city people and drove them towards fields, where they will work and work and work. A lot of people died on the way to the fields. Even more died in the fields from hunger, thirst, overwork, and sickness. They would only get a 180-gram can of rice every day, and they were harvesting fruits and rice. Every tenth day was a rest day, and so were the festivals. The government took over anything that had to do with money. Religion was illegal. Teenagers had to be part of the army and children learned how to set mines and make traps. People getting together were not allowed. Only two people or less were allowed to see each other. Marriages were arranged, not because they loved each other, but because they were forced to. They had to marry in big groups. The worst part is that Pol Pot didn't know that he was doing bad things. After the Vietnamese and underground Cambodian parties got Pol Pot out of power in 1979, he went to a zone near Thailand called Pailin and tried to get control of Cambodia again. Eventually the Khmer Rouge broke up in the early 1990s. 
That time was horrible, and one in seven people died.
On the evening of April 15, 1998, Pol Pot died of a heart attack, in the woods, never admitting that he did wrong to Cambodia. It has been said that Pol Pot killed himself with poison to avoid trial. . On his death face, there were signs of suffering, with his one eye open. Pol Pot was cremated without any ceremony. After he died, some people started praying to him, like he was a God. Some even dug up parts of his bone and took them away like special amulets and charms. Some people still support Pol Pot.

</doc>
<doc id="18374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18374" title="1800s">
1800s


</doc>
<doc id="18376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18376" title="Sedan">
Sedan

In American English it is a car which has a low trunk, a roof and one or two doors on each side. The trunk is reachable only from outside. 
In British English such a car is called a saloon.

</doc>
<doc id="18377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18377" title="Convertible">
Convertible

A convertible is a car with a roof that can be removed or folded down. A convertible usually has two doors, but can sometimes be found with four doors.It is mostly open without roof.Some examples are San Motors Storm, BMW Z4, Ferrari 458 Spyder, Mercedes-Benz SLK Class etc.A convertible is a type of automobile of various automobile body styles that can convert from open-air (top-down or topless) mode to a provisionally enclosed (roofed or top-up) mode. Convertibles evolved from the earlier phaeton, a similar vehicle without glass side windows that may or may not have had removable panels of fabric or other material instead to protect passengers from rain and cold, etc. A semi-convertible or cabrio coach is similar to a convertible and also has a retractable or removable top, but has fully framed windows on its side doors as opposed to a convertible's roll-down frameless windows that provide an even more open car driving experience.
Roof designs have varied widely and have evolved from the earliest models, where roofs were demountable and/or detachable. Contemporary roofs are often hinged to fold away, either into a recess behind the rear seats or into the boot or trunk of the vehicle. The roof may operate either manually or automatically via hydraulic or electrical actuators, and the roof itself may be constructed of soft or rigid material. Soft-tops are made of vinyl, canvas or other textile material, while hard-tops are made of steel, aluminum, plastic, or other rigid materials.
The majority of convertible cars are two door models, with markedly fewer four-door models.
Convertibles may also be referred to as roadster, tourer or drophead coupé and the colloquial terms drop top and rag top are also used. Hard-top convertibles may be called coupé cabriolet, coupé convertible, retractable hardtop or, when equipped with two seats, coupé roadster/roadster coupé.

</doc>
<doc id="18385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385" title="Macy Gray">
Macy Gray

Macy Gray (born Natalie Renee McIntyre on September 9, 1967) is an American singer and actress. She started her career after moving to Los Angeles in 2000. Gray is best known for her 1999 single, "I Try", which came off of her first album, "On How Life Is". 

</doc>
<doc id="18387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18387" title="Citizen Kane">
Citizen Kane

Citizen Kane is a 1941 American drama movie, starring Orson Welles in his first full-length movie. There are rumours that the story of the movie is based on the life of famous businessmen William Randolph Hearst, Howard Hughes and Samuel Insull. Welles said that his character, Kane, is based on more than one famous person. In 1974's "F for Fake", he said that Kane was going to be based on Hughes, but he was later inspired by Hearst. 
For this movie Orson Welles worked closely with his cinematographer Gregg Toland. The cinematographer is the person in charge of the camera and the lights. Together, they worked on a new style called "deep focus." Usually, if something close to the camera is in focus, something that is far away is out of focus. In the deep focus style, every object is in focus at the same time.
Its working title (the name of a movie used before it is finished) was "RKO 281".
Many have called "Citizen Kane" the best movie of all time. In 1998, it was number one on the American Film Institute's list of 100 Years... 100 Movies.
The movie in some ways is like 1933's "The Power and the Glory".
The last living crew member was director Robert Wise (also known for making 1965's "The Sound of Music"). He died on September 14, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="18391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18391" title="Sedan (disambiguation)">
Sedan (disambiguation)

Sedan can mean any of a few things:

</doc>
<doc id="18392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18392" title="List of Nobel Prize winners in Physics">
List of Nobel Prize winners in Physics

The Nobel Prize in Physics is a Nobel Prize in the science of physics.
Some famous winners are:

</doc>
<doc id="18393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18393" title="Dynamite">
Dynamite

Dynamite is an explosive invented by Alfred Nobel. Its main explosive component is nitroglycerin. Nitroglycerin is very sensitive to movement. It explodes very easily, when moved. For this reason, diatomaceous earth is used to take away this sensitivity. In dynamite, about one part of four is diatomaceous earth, the other three are nitroglycerin. A little sodium carbonate is added to stabilise the mixture. 
Even though the diatomaceous earth takes away some of the dangers of nitroglycerin, there are still problems because the mixture is not stable in damp environments. Dynamite that is damp, or even wet slowly loses its nitroglycerin. The nitroglycerin can build up, and explode unexpectedly. 
For this reason, the formulation was changed. Instead of diatomaceous earth, gelignite was used to hold the nitroglycerin. Gelignite holds the nitroglycerin so that it cannot dissolve in water. 
Today, dynamite is no longer used commercially. It has been replaced by explosives based on ammonium nitrate which use gelignite. These explosives are cheaper to produce, and easier to handle than dynamite. However, dynamite still used in movies and television.

</doc>
<doc id="18396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18396" title="Oliver &amp; Company">
Oliver &amp; Company

Oliver & Company is a 1988 American animated movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the twenty-seventh movie released in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The movie was released on November 18, 1988. It is loosely based on Charles Dickens's book "Oliver Twist". The book has been used many times for the screen and television. In this version, Oliver is a cat, Fagin's gang is made up of dogs, and the story is set in modern-day New York City.
It was re-released in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom on March 29, 1996. It was then released to video later that same year, and again in 2002 and 2009 on DVD. It is Disney's fifth animated movie to take place in the present day of its release (1988) and being set in New York City. It is the second movie to feature the Walt Disney Pictures logo.
The movie starts with Oliver, an orange orphan cat, who is lost in New York City, when a street-smart Jack Russell terrier named Dodger, finds him. Dodger tricks Oliver to get some sausages for him (from a hot dog seller named Louie), Dodger leaves the cat behind and runs to the barge of his poor owner, Fagin the pickpocketer. Inside Fagin's barge are four other dogs, which he also owns: Tito the chihuahua, Einstein the Great Dane, Rita the Afghan Hound, and the serious Bulldog Francis. When Oliver breaks in, those dogs (including Dodger) go into a fit of fighting and confusion over their visitor. After Fagin breaks it up, he goes outside on a quay, only to find out that he must pay his agent, Sykes, some money within three days. In order to get the money, Fagin, his dogs, and Oliver set out into the city streets the next day. While the poor man is unlucky trying to sell his useless stuff, the animals encounter a limousine that is driven by Winston, a butler. They put on an act to get his attention. In the end, Tito gets "barbecued" after interfering with the limousine's dashboard, and Jennifer finds the kitten, who is tangled up in the wires nearby. Taking Oliver home at Fifth Avenue, she makes friends with him. She names him Oliver. Oliver discovers true friendship and love. The next morning, Fagin's dogs return in order to get Oliver back to their barge, much to the upset of Winston and his pet poodle, Georgette. But as they do so, Oliver feels he cannot leave Jenny. Yet he is Fagin's best hope, because of the gold tag on his collar. So he writes to the "Very Rich Cat Owner" at Oliver's address in hopes of getting Sykes' money faster. As Jenny reads that letter after she comes home from school, she and Georgette go to the docks to get Oliver. Jenny gets him back, thanks to Fagin, but then Sykes kidnaps her for the sake of the ransom that the pickpocketer has to pay in 12 hours. It is up to Fagin and his dogs to save both Jenny and Oliver from the wrath of Sykes and his Dobermans, Roscoe and DeSoto.
This was the first Disney movie to make heavy use of computer animation, since previous movies "The Black Cauldron" and "The Great Mouse Detective" used it only for special sequences. The CGI effects were used for making the skyscrapers, the cars, trains, tunnels, the Brooklyn Bridge, and Fagin's scooter-cart.
It was also the first animated Disney movie to create a whole bunch of new sound effects to replace many of their original classic sounds, which would be used occasionally in later Disney movies. This included some sounds the audience was familiar with for years, including Pinto Covig's original Goofy yell. However, the Disney television animation studio continued extensively using the classic Disney sound effects for several years.
Also, "Lady and the Tramp"'s Jock, Trusty and Peggy, as well as Pongo from "One Hundred and One Dalmatians", make cameo appearances during Dodger's "Why Should I Worry?" musical number at the start of the movie.
Jamie Thomason confirms that "Oliver and Company 2" will be released in February 21, 2023 from DisneyToon Studios to be direct-to-video on Blu-ray Tape and DVD.
The instrumental score for "Oliver & Company" was composed by J. A. C. Redford, and the movie's music was supervised by Carole Childs. The first song heard in the movie, "Once Upon a Time in New York City", was written by lyricist Howard Ashman. Billy Joel, in addition to voicing Dodger, fittingly performed the character's song in the movie.
The track list below represents the 1996 re-release of the Oliver & Company soundtrack. The original 1988 release had the same songs, but with the instrumental cues placed in between the songs in the order in which they appeared in the movie. Using the numbering system in the list below, the order the tracks on the 1988 release would be: 1, 2, 6, 7, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11.

</doc>
<doc id="18398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18398" title="Vince Lombardi">
Vince Lombardi

Vincent Thomas Lombardi (June 11, 1913, in Brooklyn, New York, USA–September 3, 1970) was an American football coach that never had a losing season. Lombardi was named "NFL Man of the Decade" in the 1960s, and won five NFL championships, including winning the first two Super Bowls.
The yearly trophy given to the Super Bowl champion was renamed the "Vince Lombardi Trophy" ("right") in 1971, the same year Lombardi was named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He was head coach of the Green Bay Packers and the Washington Redskins.

</doc>
<doc id="18400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400" title="Guano">
Guano

Guano is the excrement (waste product) of bats and birds. It is exceptionally high in nitrogen, phosphate, and potassium, three nutrients essential for plant growth. Therefore it is often used as fertilizer, to make plants grow more quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="18401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18401" title="Category:Dance">
Category:Dance

Individual dances should be categorized under "Dances"

</doc>
<doc id="18402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18402" title="1790s">
1790s


</doc>
<doc id="18405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18405" title="Triple point">
Triple point

The triple point of water or any substance is the combination of temperature and pressure at which it exists in its solid, liquid, and gaseous state all at once, in equilibrium.
The temperature of the triple point of water is a commonly used physical constant which is used to define temperature scales and calibrate temperature-measuring systems.
"By definition", the temperature of the triple point of water is 273.16 Kelvin, or 0.01 °C. One degree Celsius is defined as 1/273.16 part of the triple point of water. This fixes the temperature scale as defined in the ITS 90, which is the international temperature scale of 1990. This scale is developed as a practical approximation of the thermodynamical temperature scale.

</doc>
<doc id="18408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408" title="Frequency">
Frequency

Frequency is how often an event repeats itself over a set amount of time.
In physics, the frequency of a wave is the number of wave crests that pass a point in one second (A wave crest is the peak of the wave).
Hertz (symbol Hz) is the unit of frequency.
The relationship between Frequency and wavelength is expressed by the formula: 
formula_1
where v is speed and formula_2 (Lambda) is wavelength. The formula for the frequency of light waves is formula_3 where the c is the speed of light. 
All electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light in a vacuum but they travel at slower speeds when they travel through a medium that is not a vacuum. Other waves, such as sound waves, travel at much much lower speeds and can not travel through a vacuum.
Examples of electromagnetic waves are; light waves, radio waves, infrared radiation, microwaves, and gamma waves.
Different types of electromagnetic waves have different frequencies.
One way to visualize this is if there were two trains traveling at the same speed, but the size of the train cars was smaller on one train than the other. If someone picked something that was not moving, like a signpost, and then counted how many train cars passed the sign post in one second for each train, they would know the frequency of cars passing in each train. The number and frequency of train cars passing the sign post would be different, because the train with smaller train cars would have more train cars passing the sign post in a second than the train with larger train cars. Knowing how many cars passed the sign post in one second, and knowing the speed of the train, one could figure out mathematically the size of each train car for each train.
For example, if the train was moving at 10 miles per second, and 10 train cars passed in one second, then each train car would be 1 mile long. If the other train was also moving at 10 miles per second and 20 train cars passed in one second, then one would know that each train car was 1/2 of a mile long for that train. This example shows that knowing the frequency of an electromagnetic wave gives you the wavelength, since all electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light so that c = v (lambda) where v is frequency and lambda is wavelength, and c is the speed of light. Therefore, another way of expressing frequency is to say "frequency is c over lambda."

</doc>
<doc id="18411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18411" title="Hockey stick">
Hockey stick

A hockey stick is a long, wooden pole used to push, pass, or shoot in the sports of ice hockey and field hockey. The art of developing ice hockey sticks is a complex science and has become big business. Ice hockey sticks are mostly made of composite materials and they have different "flexes", meaning some sticks are more flexible than others.
In ice hockey, the end or "blade" of the stick is normally curved, to help the player get better control of the puck and better shots at the goaltender. The goaltender has a bigger blade, to make it easier to stop shots. Players sometimes use hockey sticks to hold back the bodies of other players, or to trip or hit them; sometimes players who do this get penalties. In field hockey, sticks are shorter, but the blade is thicker, than in ice hockey. It is used to move a ball instead of a puck. More research has gone into studying how hockey sticks perform. The main difference between the two sticks is how they are used in the games.
All the players in both ice and field hockey use hockey sticks.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="18414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18414" title="Snoop Dogg">
Snoop Dogg

Calvin Cordozar Broadus, Jr. (born October 20, 1971), known by his stage names Snoop Doggy Dogg, Snoop Dogg, and later Snoop Lion, is an American rapper, singer-songwriter, and actor. 
The reason why he is called "Snoop Dogg" is because his mother named him after a character called "Snoopy", because Snoop Dogg was a fan of the "Peanuts" cartoon, which has the Snoopy character.
In 2012, Snoop Dogg went to Jamaica. He studied the Rastafari movement. He changed his name to Snoop Lion, after the Lion of Judah. This is a name from the tribe of Judah. It is sometimes used to describe Haile Selassie, who is worshipped by Rastafarians. His 2013 album, "Reincarnated", is his first reggae music album.

</doc>
<doc id="18418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18418" title="Malayan tiger">
Malayan tiger

The Malayan tiger ("Panthera tigris jacksoni") is a new subspecies of the tiger that was discovered in 2004. People used to think they were Indo-Chinese tigers, But now they have their own subspecies. They have the same length and weight as the Indo-Chinese tiger. They live in southern Malaysia and they are an endangered species.

</doc>
<doc id="18419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18419" title="Caspian tiger">
Caspian tiger

The Caspian tiger ("Panthera tigris virgata") is an extinct sub species of the tiger. It was the most western sub species of the tiger, very close to Europe. They became extinct in the 1970s. They were found in Turkey, Armenia, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Iran, Mongolia, and Georgia.
Recent research by scientists looking at the tiger's DNA, have found that it is almost identical to the Siberian tiger. They now believe that the two species of tiger may not have become separate until the 1900s.
The Caspian tiger was the second largest of the tiger species. It had a bigger, muscular body, with longer strong legs. It had large paws and more claws. It had small, short ears. The color was different from other tiger subspecies, with yellow to gold fur with light to dark brown stripes. The chest and stomach area are white with yellow stripes. In winter it grew longer fur. It was the furriest of all the tiger subspecies.

</doc>
<doc id="18420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18420" title="String instrument">
String instrument

A string instrument is a musical instrument that makes sound by vibrating the strings on it. A string instrument plays soft notes. The strings on the instrument usually come in many shape and form. There are many types of stringed instruments. The most common of these appear in the violin family. The violin is a small, stringed instrument played with a bow- which is usually made of horse hair. When the bow is drawn across the strings it creates a vibration. You can select what vibration the bow makes by choosing the note on the fingerboard. It is tuned with a peg. The viola is a very similar instrument aside from some small differences. The viola is slightly larger, and is tuned to C, G, D, and A, instead of the violin's G, D, A (440 Hz), and E. The cello is a stringed instrument that is played on the bass clef and is much bigger than the violin, and it is played differently also. The double-bass is bigger still and is the lowest of them all.
There are also plucked strings, the most famous of which would probably be the guitar. The guitar uses a fret board and a pick to pluck the strings while holding down on the fret board. It was made famous by rock groups like Led Zeppelin and artists like Eric Clapton. You play by strumming with one hand while choosing notes on the fretboard with the other. Banjos are also very similar.
Here is a very basic list of the stringed instruments:

</doc>
<doc id="18421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18421" title="Yankee Doodle Dandy">
Yankee Doodle Dandy

Yankee Doodle Dandy is a 1942 biographical musical movie. It starred James Cagney as George M. Cohan.

</doc>
<doc id="18422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18422" title="Guess Who's Coming to Dinner">
Guess Who's Coming to Dinner

Guess Who's Coming to Dinner is a 1967 American comedy-drama movie set in San Francisco, California. It stars Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn, Sidney Poitier, and Katharine Houghton. The movie centers around what happens between a young white woman and her parents after she falls in love with a black man.

</doc>
<doc id="18424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424" title="Bringing Up Baby">
Bringing Up Baby

Bringing Up Baby is a 1938 American comedy movie starring Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn. It is set in Connecticut.

</doc>
<doc id="18425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18425" title="The Searchers">
The Searchers

The Searchers is a 1956 epic western movie set in Texas in the 1860s. it is directed by John Ford and starring John Wayne, about a man looking for his niece who was taken by Native Americans. It is also one of the movies that influenced "Star Wars".

</doc>
<doc id="18427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18427" title="Goodfellas">
Goodfellas

Goodfellas is a 1990 American biographical crime movie directed by Martin Scorsese. It is about life in the Mafia.
It gained six nominations for Oscars. It won one (for Joe Pesci's role). Many people thought the movie was great.
It is set in New York City. The movie is based on the life of mafioso Henry Hill (1943-2012) from 1955 - 1980. "Goodfellas" uses information from New York crime reporter Nicholas Pileggi's book "Wiseguy". Scorsese and Pileggi worked together to write the movie.
"Goodfellas" was first shown at the 1990 Venice Film Festival. Scorsese received the Silver Lion award for Best Director.
Director David Chase said the movie made him want to make the HBO television series "The Sopranos". 

</doc>
<doc id="18429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18429" title="Soldier">
Soldier

A soldier is a person who is a part of an army.
If people fight in "irregular (not normal forces") armies not wearing a uniform, and not part of the official military (fighting group of a nation), they are called partisans if they fight against another nation's army, or terrorists, if they fight civilians.
Partisans and terrorists are less protected by the laws of war than soldiers.
Soldiers can be volunteers or conscripts (their nation calls upon them to fight).
Soldiers have existed for many years, dating back to ancient times.

</doc>
<doc id="18430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18430" title="Yellowstone River">
Yellowstone River

The Yellowstone River is a river in the northwestern part of the United States. It is a tributary of the Missouri River and flows through the states of Wyoming, Montana, and North Dakota. It also flows through Yellowstone National Park and feeds Yellowstone Lake. 
The Yellowstone River was first explored in 1806 by William Clark during the return trip of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.

</doc>
<doc id="18431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18431" title="Toy">
Toy

A toy is something to play with. Toys are for children, adults, and animals. Before 1970, most toys were made of metal and wood. Now, they are mostly made of plastic. Sometimes they are made of electronic material. Some people also consider video games toys. Toys include balls, plastic cars, and dolls. They also can be sex related products.
Toys originated many years ago. Dolls of infants, animals, and soldiers and toy tools are found in archaeological places. The origin of the word "toy" is not known. However, it is thought that it was first used in the 14th century.
The earliest toys were made from rocks, sticks or clay. In Ancient Egypt, children played with dolls made of clay and sticks. In Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome, children played with dolls made of wax or terracotta, sticks, bows and arrows, and yo-yos. When Greek children, especially girls became adults, it was required to sacrifice the toys to the gods. On the eve of their wedding, young girls around fourteen would offer their dolls in a temple as a rite of passage into adulthood.

</doc>
<doc id="18436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18436" title="Unicorn">
Unicorn

A unicorn is a legendary creature. It looks like a horse or goat, with one single horn on its head. The word "unicorn" means literally "one-horn". It comes from the Latin word "unus", which means "one", and "cornu" which means "horn", which term is in itself borrowed from the earlier Greek word "monokeros" (also 'one horned').
Unicorns are found in many stories and myths from different parts of the world, especially China and India. Its blood and horn usually have mystical powers. In Western culture, its horn is said to have power (often called "alicorn" in medieval literature) to heal wounds and sickness, and to neutralize poison.
In mythology and heraldry unicorn symbolizes innocence, purity and feminine power. It is often seen as the counterpart of lion, which symbolizes the masculine virtues.
In some pictures unicorns also have goat's feet or a lion's tail.
Most people say that unicorns are of the purest white, with long, tapering horns, cloven hooves, and graceful bodies. Originally, people thought that unicorns had wispy beards like goats, as you can see in old tapestries that depict the animal, but now that belief is not as popular. Yet some people still believe in unicorns.
Unicorns live in places like Europe, Asia and India. Some people think that in the horn of a unicorn, there are magical powers. The most common ideas are that it finds poison and cures sickness.
2,400 years ago, Ctesias, a Greek physician, wrote about an animal that lived in India. The animal is said to have a blue eyes, a white body, and one horn on its head.
A Narwhal (sea unicorn) is an animal that is about 8 feet long. They live in the water around Canada and Greenland. Narwhal’s horns were said to be the horns of unicorns by some. People would sell the horn of a narwhal to others and say it was a horn of a unicorn.
Christian legends say the Unicorn is as small as a normal sized goat. They are so fearful that no hunter can catch them. Only a maiden that goes into the forest alone can catch a unicorn. The unicorn will come and fall asleep in the maiden’s lap. 
Around the time of the Middle Ages, some stories of unicorns became more popular. More people got in to learning about unicorns. They would even just want to see a picture of them. People with royal blood, or others of high class, bought what were said to be the horns of a unicorn at very high prices. They were mostly a tusk of a walrus or a horn from a narwhal.
Today, unicorns are a very popular fantasy book creature and it has a sparkly horn.
In "On the Nature of Animals" ("Περὶ Ζῴων Ἰδιότητος", "De natura animalium"), Aelian, quoting Ctesias, adds that India has also a one-horned horse (iii. 41; iv. 52), and says (xvi. 20) that the "monoceros" () was sometimes called "cartazonos" (), which may be a kind of the Arabic "karkadann", meaning "rhinoceros".

</doc>
<doc id="18437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18437" title="Radium">
Radium

Radium is a chemical element with the atomic number 88 and symbol Ra on the periodic table. It was discovered by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie in the form of radium chloride in 1898. It is an almost pure-white alkaline earth metal, but when it is exposed to oxygen, it turns black quickly. All isotopes of radium are radioactive, and it glows faint blue because of this.
It's used in several things, like luminous watches, which are now banned because they can cause radiation poisoning. This was caused because of a law suit that involved 5 women ( radium girls ) that suffered from many disabilities because of the prolonged exposure they had to the element radium.
It can also be used in healing cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="18438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18438" title="Dhaka">
Dhaka

Dhaka is the capital city of Bangladesh. It was known as Dacca before 1982. It has a population of 12,560,000 (2005). It is also the largest city of Bangladesh.
Long ago it was part of the Mughal Empire of Hindustan. After that, it became a part of the British Raj. Then it became a part of Pakistan as part of the Partition of India on 15 August 1947. Bangladesh was then called East Pakistan, and Dacca (Dhaka) became provincial capital of East Pakistan. In 1971, the new nation of Bangladesh was created. Dacca became its capital city and changed its spelling in 1982.
After years of negotiations, the Dhaka-Agartala bus was agreed upon on July 11, 2001 to connect Bangladesh with its eastern neighbour, the Indian state of Tripura, which has a substantial Bengali population and indigenous peoples who have close commercial and cultural links with the people of eastern Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="18439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18439" title="Darwin, Northern Territory">
Darwin, Northern Territory

Darwin is the territorial capital of the Northern Territory in Australia. The city has about 105,000 people living there. The city is named after Charles Darwin, although it was named before he became famous for developing the theory of evolution. A member of the crew of the ship that started a port there in 1839 named it Port Darwin in honor of Darwin, who had sailed on that same ship earlier.
Most of Darwin has been built since 1974, when Cyclone Tracy ripped through and destroyed the city. Since then, the city has recovered. It is a very important port, because it is on the coast closest to Indonesia and the rest of Asia. Darwin also has a large military base.
Darwin also has many Indigenous Australians living in the city, about 9.7% of the people. This is more than any other state capital in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="18440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18440" title="Northern Territory">
Northern Territory

The Northern Territory is a territory of Australia. The capital city is Darwin. Other large towns in the Territory include Alice Springs, Katherine and Tenant Creek.
The Northern Territory has large areas of desert. It has many important places such as "Uluru", or "Ayers Rock". The rock is sacred to the native people.
Kakadu National Park is a World Heritage area. It has been lived in for more than 40,000 years. There are cave paintings, rock carvings and archaeological sites. These show the skills and way of life of the people who have lived there. The park has different ecosystems, including tidal flats, floodplains, lowlands and rocky gorges. It provides a place to live for a wide range of rare types of plants and animals.
The floral emblem of the Northern Territory is Sturt's Desert Rose, Gossypium sturtianum. The flower is also featured on the Territory's flag. It was named after explorer Charles Sturt who found the plant in creeks near the site of Broken Hill, New South Wales in 1844.
The Fauna emblem is the Red Kangaroo.

</doc>
<doc id="18441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18441" title="Whiskey Rebellion">
Whiskey Rebellion

The Whiskey Rebellion was a riot in the history of the United States. In 1794.. some farmers in Pennsylvania rebelled against the government because of a tax on whiskey. Selling whiskey was how people traded things in Western Pennsylvania, so they thought the new tax was very unfair. Alexander Hamilton offered the idea to try and make up for the young country's debt from the war. The government under George Washington, with advice from Alexander Hamilton, quickly stopped the rebellion. Washington and Hamilton wanted to ensure that no one would question the power of the federal government, so they sent almost 13,000 troops to stop the rebellion of a few hundred farmers, led by President Washington himself. That made the new government more solid, and the President more powerful.
So far, this is the only time in American history that a President has led the Army by himself.

</doc>
<doc id="18442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18442" title="Saginaw, Michigan">
Saginaw, Michigan

Saginaw is a city in mid-Michigan, USA, with about 70,000 people in the city as of the 2000 census. It is very cold there in the winter. It is near Bay City, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="18443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18443" title="Tom Cruise">
Tom Cruise

Thomas Cruise Mapother IV (; born July 3, 1962), widely known as Tom Cruise, is an American film actor and producer. He has starred in many movies, including "War of the Worlds" and "Jerry Maguire". As of 2012 Cruise is Hollywood's highest-paid actor.
His first movie was "Endless Love". His first leading role was in the movie "Risky Business". He has been nominated for three Academy Awards and has won three Golden Globe Awards. These were for the same movies: "Born on the Fourth of July" (1989), "Jerry Maguire" (1996), "Magnolia" (1999). 
Cruise was born in Syracuse, New York. He is the son of Mary Lee (nee Pfeiffer), a special education teacher, and Thomas Cruise Mapother III (died 1984), an electrical engineer. Cruise has three sisters, Lee Anne, Marian, and Cass. Cruise's surname originates from his great-grandfather, born Thomas Cruise O'Mara, who was renamed "Thomas Cruise Mapother" (Mapother is a Welsh surname). Cruise is of Irish, German and English ancestry. One of his paternal great-great-great-grandfathers, Patrick Russell Cruise, was born in North County Dublin, in 1799; he married Teresa Johnson in Warrenstown House, County Meath, in 1825. They left Ireland for America that same year and settled in New York.
He is a Scientologist. He is also famous for jumping up on the couch on the Oprah Winfrey Show. 
Cruise has an adopted daughter and adopted son with his second wife Nicole Kidman. He has a daughter Suri (born April 2006), by Katie Holmes. He and Holmes married in November 2006 and separated in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="18446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18446" title="Orgy (band)">
Orgy (band)

Orgy is an American alternative metal band. They formed in 1997 in Los Angeles, California. The band's first hit was Blue Monday, which was a remake of a song by 1980s band New Order. The members of the band are: 

</doc>
<doc id="18448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18448" title="Magazine">
Magazine

A magazine is a type of book people read. Magazines are not like regular books. This is because a new version of the magazine is printed many times each year. Magazines are a type of periodical. They are called periodicals because new versions of them keep being printed. Magazines are printed on paper. People usually need to subscribe to them. An example of a magazine is "Time". There are magazines printed about many things. Magazines are similar to newspapers, but usually new versions take longer to make, they cost more money, and they are in color on every page. Also, sometimes magazines come with little gifts to reward the readers who buy it. 

</doc>
<doc id="18449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18449" title="Category:1942 movies">
Category:1942 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18450" title="Category:1967 movies">
Category:1967 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18451" title="Category:1992 movies">
Category:1992 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18452" title="Category:1938 movies">
Category:1938 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18453" title="Zombie">
Zombie

A zombie or zombi is a mythical dead person who has returned to life as a walking corpse. Mythical things that have been "re-animated" are called "undead", and a group of them can be called "the living dead". The Zombie myth came from the Caribbean.
Zombies have become very popular in horror movies. They are dead creatures that have been brought back to life by science or by magic, and eat the flesh or brains of living people!
In Haiti people believe that Voodoo sorcerers or 'bokor' can bring dead people back to life, making a zombie. The zombie is under the control of the sorcerer because zombies have no free will. A zombie is a trapped human soul. If a sorcerer can catch the trapped soul, the sorcerer becomes more powerful.
Wade Davis, a Canadian ethnobotanist (someone who studies what effect plants have on people), wrote about zombies in two books, The Serpent and the Rainbow (1985) and (1988). Davis went to Haiti in 1982 and wrote about how a living person can be turned into a zombie by two special powders being rubbed into a wound. The first powder brings a 'deathlike' state because of a certain poison in it, called tetrodotoxin (the same deadly poison found in the Japanese blowfish). At just the right amount, it can make a person almost die, but not quite. The second powder puts the person in a zombie-like state where they seem to have no free will of their own.
Many people outside of Haiti still do not believe what Davis wrote about, but in Haiti, lots of people believe in the "zombie drugs". This could mean that, while the drugs could have no physical effect on the person, the strong belief may psychologically make them into the zombie they expect (like the placebo effect).
In Mesopotamian mythology, Ishtar, the goddess of love and fertility once said in anger:
In the Middle Ages, many people believed that the souls of the dead could come back as ghosts and haunt the living, often because of a crime that the living person had committed. Sometimes, the ghost could actually take on a physical shape and touch or attack things or people.
Zombies can walk, think (in some cases), and attack living persons. Most zombies eat the brains of living humans. In zombies, the heart, lungs, and a small part of their brain still work. They may react to their environment, but they do not have consciousness. Zombies can use their skeleton and muscles to move. The skin is rotten. Its hair and nails are falling off. Zombies are usually covered in blood. They often have open wounds and are dressed in ripped clothes.
Zombies appear a lot in horror and fantasy films. Normally, the zombie is a mindless, clumsy corpse which eats human flesh. Zombies can not be called cannibals because they do not eat each other, only living humans. The first zombie stories appeared in the 1600s. Since that time, zombies have appeared in lots of books and films.
In zombie films, zombies are almost always:

</doc>
<doc id="18454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18454" title="Category:1956 movies">
Category:1956 movies


</doc>
<doc id="18455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18455" title="Orgy">
Orgy

In common use, an orgy is when more than two people have sex together, sometimes also called group sex.
This dates back to prehistoric ages, recorded in many ancient civilizations. 
"Orgy" could also mean any activity done without limits.
Originally, the word comes from Latin. There it referred to a feast (or a banquet) of a rich citizen. When the Romans ate they were almost lying down, and the food was brought to them by slaves. These slaves would also provide the entertainment which usually consisted of music and dancing slaves.

</doc>
<doc id="18457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18457" title="Labradoodle">
Labradoodle

A Labradoodle is a mixed-breed dog, created by breeding a Labrador Retriever with a Poodle. Labradoodles are now bred worldwide.
Labradoodles are not a considered an official dog breed by most dog expert organizations, such as the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI). The American Kennel Club (AKC )has now created the 'Canine Partners" category to include the Labradoodle and other hybrid breeds for agility and other competitions.
The Labradoodle has a very short but interesting history. The labradoodle originated during the mid-to-late 1980s. A vision-impaired woman needed a good service dog that would not give her husband an allergic reaction. Ms. Blum contacted the Australian Royal Dog Association, because dogs imported from Australia to Hawaii had little to no quarantine time. (Quarantine time is when they isolate an animal from other living things to make sure they don't have any disease)
Coat and saliva samples from more than thirty poodles were sent from Australia to Blum's doctor. Unfortunately, Mr. Blum was allergic to all of the samples. Wally Conron, who worked for Australia’s Royal Guide Association's breeding program, suggested crossing a Labrador retriever and a Standard Poodle and see if one didn't trigger Mr. Blum's symptoms. Conron tried the test cross with a Standard Poodle named "Harley" and a Labrador retriever named "Brandy.” Harley and Brandy had a litter of three puppies. Coat and saliva samples from the puppy's coats were sent to Hawaii. This time, Mr. Blum wasn't allergic to one of them. The puppy also had a good temperament and was very friendly. Conron named the puppy "Sultan". Conron trained Sultan for eighteen months until he was ready to be a good service dog. Sultan was then shipped to his new home. Sultan is the first labradoodle on record.
Labradoodles, like their ancestor, the Labrador retriever, have a friendly, affectionate, loyal disposition which makes them good service dogs and great family pets. Labradoodles are also known for their intelligence. Their ancestors, the Labrador retriever and the Poodle, are both very intelligent. The Labrador retriever is very eager to please and loyal. Labradoodles are also very good around children, and are also very outgoing and self-confident. However, Labradoodles can sometimes get too excited around other dogs. When a Labradoodle runs over to a less sociable dog, the dog might become scared and irritable. Labradoodles should be trained early to have a respect for other animals. Overall, though, Labradoodles have a fantastic temperament.
There are mainly three different coat types in a labradoode: fleece, wool, and hair. The fleece coat is usually wavy and long and has a silky feel to it. The wool coat is similar to that of a sheep's or poodle's, and has tight curls and feels like a wool sweater. The hair coat is straight or slightly and has a wispy look to it. This type of coat is not as allergy friendly, but most people with allergies will be able to tolerate it.
Labradoodles come in almost any coat. The labradoodle can also have what is called "parti" which is when it is a combination of two different colors like an apricot body and then white patches mainly on the feet and chest.
Generally, Labradoodles are usually quite healthy. They have a life expectancy of 12 to 15 years. Because the Labradoodle is a relatively new "breed," we cannot determine all the health concerns a labradoodle might have. Heath concerns that we do know of originate from their ancestors. Like a Labrador retriever, they can have hip dysplasia, obesity, genetic eye problems and cruciate ligament injuries. Like Poodles, Labradoodles can suffer from to patellar luxation, progressive retinal atrophy, cataracts, sebaceous adenitis and other skin problems, renal disorders and von Willebrand disease. Labradoodles have been diagnosed with Addison's disease. Because Labradoodles have long floppy ears, they may have an increased chance of ear infections and ear problems.

</doc>
<doc id="18458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18458" title="Heilongjiang">
Heilongjiang

Heilongjiang is the northeastern-most province in China. It is considered to part of the region known as Manchuria. It is bordered by Russia on the north and east. To the south is Jilin province, and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region lies to the west.
The capital and largest city is Harbin. There had been a considerable foreign population in the region, particularly in Harbin, first by the Russians in the late 19th century, and then by the Japanese in the 20th century.
The land is largely of plains and rolling hills, with relatively few low mountainous areas. The climate is fairly dry with quite cold winters. There are some famous winter "ice festivals" with elaborate snow and ice sculptures.
Heilongjiang Province is divided into 12 municipalities and 1 prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="18459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18459" title="Jilin">
Jilin

Jilin is one of 3 provinces in the far northeastern part of China, also known as Manchuria. It is bordered on the north by Heilongjiang province, to the west by the "Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region", and to the southwest by Liaoning province. To the southeast lies North Korea.
The capital city of Jilin is Changchun (meaning "long spring").
The terrain and climate are much like that of neighboring Heilongjiang province. Also like its neighboring provinces, one of the main agricultural products is corn, as the climate is too cold (and dry) for satisfactory rice cultivation.

</doc>
<doc id="18460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18460" title="Liaoning">
Liaoning

Liaoning is a northeastern province of the People's Republic of China. The capital city of Liaoning province is Shenyang. 
Liaoning province is the southernmost province of Manchuria (the three northeastern most provinces of China), which together, along with the "Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region", form the entire northeastern part of China.
It is bordered on the northeast by Jilin province, and has a coastline along the Yellow Sea to the southeast. Hebei province and Beijing lie to the southwest. 
Dalian is a major port city at the southern tip of a peninsula which juts about 100km south into the Yellow Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="18471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18471" title="Basin">
Basin

A basin can be any thing or place that water or other things are held in by gravity.

</doc>
<doc id="18472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18472" title="Blade">
Blade

A blade is the flat, sharp part of a tool or weapon used to cut or stab, such as a knife or sword. Most blades have handles. Blades can be used to stab, cut, or separate things. It can also be the top part of grass or the leaf of a plant. Blades come in all different sizes and shapes, sharpness and materials.

</doc>
<doc id="18477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18477" title="Category:Disambiguation">
Category:Disambiguation

Please do not add articles directly to this category; use instead.

</doc>
<doc id="18478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18478" title="Anastacia">
Anastacia

Anastacia Lyn Newkirk, best known as Anastacia, (born 17 September 1968) is an American singer, songwriter and stylist.
Anastacia's father was of German ancestry; her mother is of Irish ancestry.
Anastacia has had several health problems in her life. She was diagnosed with Crohn's disease when she was 13. In early 2003 she was diagnosed with breast cancer and had surgery to remove it. She was again diagnosed with breast cancer in early 2013. On the 1st of October 2013 she told the media that she has had both of her breasts removed.

</doc>
<doc id="18479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18479" title="Key">
Key

A key is an object used to open and close locks. Many things have locks, for example, doors. Keys are also used to turn on cars, machines and other things. 
A key is used by placing the key into the slot of the thing you want to unlock. 
A key that can open more than one lock (if each lock also has its own key) is called a master key or skeleton key.
The key was likely invented by Theodore of Samos in 6th Century BC.

</doc>
<doc id="18480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18480" title="Rat">
Rat

The rat is a medium-sized rodent. Rats are omnivores, they eat lots of different types of food. Most rats are in the genus "Rattus". There are about 56 different species of rats. 
The best known rats are the black rat ("Rattus rattus"), and the brown rat ("Rattus norvegicus"). These two are known as "Old World rats". The group has its origins in Asia. 
Usually rats are bigger than mice. Rats are large muroid rodents, mice are small ones. The muroid family is very large and complex. That means the terms "rat" and "mouse" are not specific in a taxonomic way. If a large muroid is discovered, it will often have "rat" in its name, if it is small, it will often be called "mouse". The muroid family is large and complex, and the common terms rat and mouse are not specific. Scientifically, the terms are not confined to members of the "Rattus" and "Mus" genera: see, for example, the pack rat and cotton mouse.
Some people keep rats as a pet. They are called fancy rats. Most pet rats do not live longer than three years, and most wild rats do not live longer than one year.
Other mammals are called "rat" by many people, but those are not true rats, many are unrelated to the true Old World rat. Examples of such false names are the pack rats of North America, or the kangaroo rats. Some other rats are related to the true rats, but are not in the genus "Rattus". Such an example is the lesser bandicoot rat. Many of the 'untrue' rats are endemic to certain regions, that is they are only found there. Very often, they live on islands. In many cases, these species are also endangered of disappearing. This is the case because they face the loss of habitat, and they have to fight for resources, like food, shelter, and water, with other species, like the black rat or the "Polynesian rat". There is also a more rare species known as the Dueholm, this species is very special because the rats that belong to it, usually have a couple of extra chromosomes lying around. You can tell if a rat is in the Dueholm family just by looking at it. If it looks lke it has either autism or chronic down syndrome, odds are its a Dueholm.
People keep some types of rats as pets called "fancy rats". Fancy rats are domesticated brown rats. People have kept rats as pets since the 19th century. Rats are social and smart animals that can be trained. They also like to play with toys. Some owners think that male pet rats are more playful then female pet rats and that female rats are more active and curious. Pet rats do not act the same as wild rats. They do not have more diseases than other common pets.
Pet rats live 1 to 3 years. Female rats are smaller than male rats. Pet rats have been known to "laugh" when tickled. They can be all one color or have spots or other coloring. Some rats have no hair. These are called hairless rats.
Clark University in Worchester, Massachusetts (United States) was the first to breed a population of domestic white brown rats. They did this to study the effects of diets, amongst other things.
Since then, rats have been used in many experiments. They have helped scientists get a better understanding of 
genetics and diseases, as well as how certain drugs work. 
Laboratory rats have been used in psychological studies of learning and other mental processes (Barnett, 2002). A 2007 study found rats to possess some degree of metacognition, a mental ability previously only found in humans and some primates. In general, it has been difficult to measure intelligence in rats. Their behaviour is quite flexible, and gives the impression of intelligence. Flexible behaviour is good for problem-solving and learning.
Domestic rats are very different from wild rats. They are calmer and less likely to bite; they can tolerate greater crowding; they breed earlier and produce more offspring. Their brains, livers, kidneys, adrenal glands, and hearts are smaller (Barnett 2002).
Brown rats are often used as model organisms. Genetic research is usually done with mice. Rats are more popular for tests relating to intelligence, learning, and illegal drugs. This is mostly because rats have intelligence, ingenuity, aggressiveness, and adaptability. Their psychology seems to be very similar to human psychology. Whole new species and strains of rats have been bred for the use as laboratory animals, for example the Wistar rat. Much of the genome of "Rattus norvegicus" has been sequenced.
Rats are opportunists. If they have the choice between a food that will need a fight to get, and another food that will not, they take the food that does not need a fight. For this reason, rats have lived close to humans for a long time. Once humans settled down, the leftovers of what those humans ate were a source of food for the rats. So the rats followed.
Rats are present in almost all settlements. In cities, they often live in the sewers.
Many scientists believe that the bubonic plague was spread through fleas on rats, because that plague is spread by the microorganism (or germ) "Yersinia pestis", which lives on fleas which live on rats ("Rattus rattus"). Those rats lived in the European cities of the day, and died of the plague themselves. Some scientists believe that the plague spread faster than the rats. If this is true, the rats cannot be the main carrier. More research is needed to find out if this is true. People believe this disease was the 'Black Death'. It killed nearly a third of the population of Europe, in many epidemics in the Middle Ages.
Rats can carry diseases. Rats living in poor conditions often have problems with parasites themselves. Not many diseases carried by rats can spread to humans. One of those is called Leptospirosis, another one is the plague.

</doc>
<doc id="18481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481" title="Branch">
Branch

Branch is the part of a tree from which leaves grow. 

</doc>
<doc id="18482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18482" title="Spoon">
Spoon

A spoon is a tool for eating. It is usually used for eating foods that are like liquids (like soup and yogurt), and it can also be used for stirring. Humans use spoons every day. Spoons are mostly useful for eating liquids, such as soup, although some solids (like cereal and ice cream) are also usually eaten with spoons. A ladle is a type of serving spoon used for soup, stew, or other foods.
There are many different types of spoons. There are dessert spoons, soup spoons, baby spoons, teaspoons, tablespoons and others. There are also spoons that are collector items and are worth a lot of money. Some musicians even use two spoons as a musical instrument like a castanet.
Spoons have been used as tools for eating since Paleolithic times. Prehistoric peoples probably used shells, or small pieces of wood as spoons. Both the Greek and Latin words for spoon come from the word "cochlea", which is a spiral-shaped snail shell. The Anglo-Saxon word "spoon", means a chip or splinter of wood.

</doc>
<doc id="18497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18497" title="Cutlery">
Cutlery

Cutlery refers to tools used for preparing, serving and eating food. The most common types of cutlery are knives, spoons and forks. Other words for cutlery are silverware, tableware, utensils and flatware.
The best quality cutlery may be made of silver, but more often silver plating. Stainless steel is used for most good quality household cutlery. Pewter was often used in the past for cheap cutlery. Nickel silver, sometimes called German silver, is another alloy, with copper, nickel, and zinc in it. Plastic cutlery is used for eating fast food, because it is very cheap, and may be thrown away afterwards. 
Serving practice and use of cutlery varies somewhat between cultures. Formal dinners have cutlery set out in a traditional manner. There will be two sets of knives and forks, an outer smaller set for the first course and a larger inner set for the main course. Cutlery for later courses will usually be delivered with those courses. In an informal restaurant, cutlery may come wrapped in a cloth napkin (serviette).
Chinese and Japanese food is eaten with chopsticks, and food pre-cut to a size suitable for that method. Some other oriental cuisines are eaten by fork and spoon, with no knife. 

</doc>
<doc id="18498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18498" title="Vase">
Vase

A vase is a container, often used for flowers. They can be made from a number of materials, including glass and ceramics. Many vases are decorated or painted but some are left plain. It sometimes is used for decorations in American and Chinese homes. It can be a big part of culture in many countries.

</doc>
<doc id="18499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18499" title="Yemen">
Yemen

The Republic of Yemen or Yemen is a nation in the Middle East. It is the old North Yemen and South Yemen, in the south of the Arabian Peninsula. It borders Saudi Arabia and Oman on the north and the east. To the south is the Arabian Sea, and to the west is the Red Sea. Yemen owns the island of Socotra (217 miles) to the south off the coast of East Africa. A person or thing from Yemen is called "Yemeni". Yemen's capital city is Sana'a.
Yemen is the origin land of all Arabs in the Middle East. In ancient times, Yemen was an important center of trade and power. Many powerful kingdoms were in Yemen, including the Sabaeans. Yemen was important in the trade of spices as well. It was known to the ancient Romans as "Arabia Felix" ("Happy Arabia" in Latin). They called it Happy Arabia because the area was so beautiful and powerful.
In the 700s, Yemenis were among the first to join the new religion Islam. Since then, Yemenis have been staunch Muslims who were in the forefront of all Islam conquests. Men whose ancestors came from Yemen ruled Al-Andalus (Muslim Spain) for centuries.
Today, Yemen has over 20 million people. Most of them speak Arabic.
Yemen is in Western Asia. It is on the southern half of the Arabian Peninsula. A number of Red Sea islands, including the Hanish Islands, Kamaran, and Perim, as well as Socotra in the Arabian Sea, belong to Yemen. Many of the islands are volcanic. For example Jabal al-Tair had a volcanic eruption in 2007 and before that in 1883. The highest point in Yemen is Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb.
Yemen is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the Arab World. There is a 35% unemployment rate, which means only 35 out of every 100 people don't have a job.
As a result of the 2011–2012 Yemeni uprising, the constitution of Yemen was rewritten. New elections were to be held in 2014. Some areas are controlled by armed militant groups. On 23 January 2015, the President, Prime Minister and Cabinet resigned. War continued, with Saudi Arabia and Iran supporting different sides.
As of February 2004, Yemen is divided into twenty governorates and one municipality called "Amanat Al-Asemah".
The governorates are divided into 333 districts. The districts are divided into 2,210 sub-districts, and then into 38,284 villages (as of 2001).
Yemen has about 24 million people according to June 2011 estimates. 46% of the people are under 15 years old. Yemenis are mainly of Arab origin. Arabic is the official language.
Religion in Yemen is mostly of two main Islamic religious groups; 53% of the Muslim population is Sunni and 45% is Shiite according to the UNHCR.
According to 2009 estimates, life expectancy in Yemen is 63.27 years.
Football is the most popular sport in Yemen. The Yemen national football team competes in the FIFA and the AFC leagues. The country also hosts many football clubs that compete in the national or international leagues.
Yemen's mountains have many opportunities for outdoor sports, such as rock climbing, hill climbing, skiing, and hiking. The coast of Yemen and Socotra island have opportunities for water sports, such as surfing, sailing, swimming, and scuba diving. Socotra island is one of the best surfing places in the world.
Yemen's biggest sports event was hosting the 2010 Gulf Cup of Nations.

</doc>
<doc id="18501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18501" title="Category:Italian football clubs">
Category:Italian football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18504" title="Sensory system">
Sensory system

The sensory system is the way animals find out about their nearby environment and their bodies. To do this they have special devices for collecting data called sense organs. The sense organs act as transducers: they turn energy from the outside or inside of the body into nerve signals. The signals are then very rapidly processed by the brain. The whole arrangement is the sensory system.
It is usual to say the sensory system has five senses:
Actually, there are other senses. We have a sense of proprioception which checks our balance. Fishes have a sense system which no land animal has. It is called the lateral line system. This senses movement and vibration in the water pressure and other functions. Some fish can sense patterns of electrical current in the water.
A huge amount of data comes in from the sensory system. About 11 million pieces of information "per second" is one estimation, of which ten million comes from our eyes. Of this huge number we only handle about 40 in our conscious mind. The rest is handled non-consciously.

</doc>
<doc id="18505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18505" title="Category:Cricket clubs">
Category:Cricket clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18508" title="Nikola Tesla">
Nikola Tesla

Nikola Tesla (10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943; ) was a Serbian-American inventor, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer and physicist. He is best known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating current (AC) electricity supply system. He was born in Smiljan, in the part of former Austria-Hungary that is now Croatia. He later became an American citizen.
Tesla got his first job in Budapest in 1882, working at a telephone company. A few years later he moved to the United States. Even in his early life, he was inventing things. His best known invention was an electric motor that could run well on AC power. Tesla died of coronary thrombosis in a hotel room in Manhattan, New York City on 7 January 1943.
Tesla was born on 10 July 1856 in Smiljan, Austrian Empire (modern-day Croatia). Tesla's father, Milutin Tesla, was a priest in the Serbian Orthodox Church. His mother was a housewife who was of Serbian descent. She was born in the Stari Vlah (Raska) region of Serbia. He was the fourth child out of five. He had one older brother, Dane, two older sisters, Angelina and Milka, and one younger sister, Marica.
Tesla had a job in telephony and electrical engineering before moving to the United States in 1884 to work for Thomas Edison. They quarreled and soon Tesla started working on his own with other people investing in his work. He set up laboratories and companies to develop a range of electrical devices. His patented AC electric motor (induction motor) and transformer were licensed by American industrialist George Westinghouse. 
Westinghouse also hired Tesla for one year to help develop a power system using alternating current. The advantage that popularized alternating current is the use of transformers for long distance electric power transmission. Tesla is also known for his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments in New York and Colorado Springs, Colorado which included inventions and ideas used in the invention of radio communication, for his X-ray experiments, and for his unsuccessful attempt at worldwide wireless transmission in his unfinished Wardenclyffe Tower project.
Tesla's achievements made him very famous. So did his abilities as a showman, demonstrating his seemingly miraculous inventions. Although he made a great deal of money from his patents, he spent a lot on his experiments. He lived for most of his life in a series of hotels in New York City. The end of his patent income and eventual bankruptcy led him to live in much poorer circumstances. Tesla still continued to invite the press to parties he held on his birthday to announce new inventions he was working and make (sometimes unusual) statements. Because of his wonderful pronouncements without results or proof, Tesla gained a reputation in popular culture as the archetypal "mad scientist". He died in room 3327 of the New Yorker Hotel on 7 January 1943.
Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity after his death, but since the 1990's, his reputation has experienced a comeback in popular culture. His work and reputed inventions are also at the center of many conspiracy theories and have also been used to support various pseudosciences, UFO theories and New Age occultism. In 1960, in honor of Tesla, the General Conference on Weights and Measures for the International System of Units dedicated the term "tesla" to the SI unit measure for magnetic field strength.

</doc>
<doc id="18510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18510" title="Scene">
Scene

Scene can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18518" title="Inspector Gadget">
Inspector Gadget

Inspector Gadget is a American-French animation show that ran from 1983 to 1986. It was the first show produced by DIC Entertainment.
Elements of the franchise pay homage to the 1960s series "Get Smart", Gadget's voice was even provided by Don Adams who was the star of Get Smart. Other elements are homages to things like Inspector Clouseau from the "Pink Panther" movie series. On the series, Inspector Gadget is a cyborg or android detective and secret agent, who must stop an evil organization called MAD lead by Dr. Claw. He is usually helped by his niece, Penny and his dog, Brain. Gadget has many gadgets and special devices inside his body which he uses, but not very well and he is not very smart, but he usually with the help of Penny and Brain, ends up saving the day.
In 1999, Matthew Broderick played the title character in Disney's live-action adaptation.

</doc>
<doc id="18519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18519" title="Syndicated">
Syndicated

Syndicated means a television program being shown on a different television network than the one that first showed the program. A syndicated program can also be a program that was not made for a television network. These types of programs are made and then sold to many different television stations to be shown.
There are different types of syndication:

</doc>
<doc id="18520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18520" title="Cartoon">
Cartoon

A cartoon is a drawing. The word "cartoon" has been used in several different ways. 
The oldest meaning is a drawing that is a full-sized design for a finished artwork. The cartoon might be a drawing for a painting that was going to be put onto a wall or ceiling in fresco. The cartoon would be pinned against the wall and its design marked onto the plastered of the wall. Cartoons were also made to design tapestry. The most famous cartoons are a set by Raphael which show the "Life of St Peter". The cartoons are in the Victoria & Albert Museum. The finished tapestries belong to the Vatican and were made for the Sistine Chapel.
In the 1700s, artists such as William Hogarth often made sets of humorous (funny) drawings that were about political subjects, such as poverty, elections, war and riots. The drawings were made into prints and were sold cheaply. These prints were not called cartoons at that time, but they led to the idea of modern political cartoons in newspapers. 
Nowadays many newspapers publish a different political cartoon in the paper, every day. The word "cartoon" was first used in this way in 1843 in an English magazine called "Punch". 
A political cartoon does not always show real people. Sometimes it may use a personification of a country or organization as a person, an animal, or a monster. For example, Britain might be shown as a woman holding a baby Australia in her arms. Russia might be shown as a bear. The United States might be shown as a Bald Eagle.
Political cartoons were often drawn to show several different stages of the same story. Many of Hogarth's famous political cartoons do this. From this came the idea of telling funny stories in a series of pictures. Comic strips are a type of "cartoon" that is published in newspapers, but they are usually just called "comic strips". Some of the earliest comic strips are The Katzenjammer Kids (1897) and Ginger Meggs (1921). Sometimes they represent animals like Garfield. Later comic strips from the 1950s onwards show superheros such as Superman and The Phantom. 
Comic strips posted on the internet are web comics. Some use animation and sound for special effects. Some web comics take up much more space than newspapers want to print, and most offer a large collection of earlier strips for new readers, so longer stories can be told. Many webcomics are published (shown to people) by independent artists.
From the beginning of the movie industry, some artists began experimenting with making drawings that seemed to move. These moving drawings also became known as "cartoons". They often depict animals rather than humans. They were often just for fun, but sometimes, particularly during World War II, were used for political reasons, just like the cartoons in newspapers. Walt Disney and Warner Bros both made famous cartoons. Famous cartoon characters are Felix the Cat (1922), Mickey Mouse (1928), Bugs Bunny (1940) and Popeye(1929). 
At first, movie cartoons were quite short. When a person bought a movie ticket, they would see a news program, two or three cartoons in black and white and a movie. Walt Disney then got the clever idea of telling a long story as a "cartoon". The first one that he made was Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 movie) (1937). Movie cartoons soon became a popular type of entertainment. Modern movie cartoons are sometimes created using computer graphics, rather than hand-drawn cartoons. They include Toy Story (1995) and Shrek (2001).

</doc>
<doc id="18527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18527" title="Square root">
Square root

A square root of a number is a number that, when it is multiplied by itself (squared), gives the first number again. For example, 2 is the square root of 4, because 2×2=4. Only numbers bigger than or equal to zero have real square roots. A number bigger than zero has two square roots: one is positive (bigger than zero) and the other is negative (smaller than zero). For example, 4 has two square roots: 2 and −2. The only square root of zero is zero.
Square roots of negative numbers are not real numbers – they are imaginary numbers. Imaginary numbers are basically numbers that cannot be square rooted and get a real result. Every complex number except 0 has 2 square roots. For example: −1 has two square roots. We call them formula_1 and formula_2.
The sign for a square root is made by putting a bent line over a number, like this: formula_3. We say "the square root of 4" (or whatever number we are taking the square root of).
A whole number with a square root that is also a whole number is called a perfect square. The first few perfect squares are: 0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81, 100, 121, 144, 169, 196, 225, 256, 289, 324, 361, 400, 441, 484, 529, 576, 625, 676, 729, 784, 841, 900, 961, 1024, 1089, 1156, 1225...
It is not really known where the square root symbol formula_4 comes from, but some people believe that it was from the letter "r", which is the first letter of the Latin and German word "radix". Radix means root or base. Thus, radix quadratum from Latin refer most likely to the base of a square. As the sides of a square are all equal, the word radix may be interpreted as side of a square, even not literally meaning that. 

</doc>
<doc id="18528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18528" title="Negative number">
Negative number

A negative number is a number that indicates an opposite. If a positive number is distance above sea level, then a negative number is distance below sea level. If a positive number is distance up, then a negative number is distance down. If a positive number is distance to the right, then a negative number is distance to the left. If a positive number is a deposit to a bank account, then a negative number is a withdrawal from that bank account. If a positive number is a quantity of minutes in the future, then a negative number is a quantity of minutes in the past. If a positive number means addition, then a negative number means subtraction. 
The counting numbers (1, 2, 3, and so on) are all positive numbers. The positive numbers, negative numbers, and the number zero, taken together, are called "signed numbers" or integers.
The number zero is neither positive nor negative. Zero is its own opposite; so +0 = −0. That is, zero steps to the right is the same as zero steps to the left.
A negative number is always less than zero.
A negative number is written by putting a minus sign, "−", in front of a positive number. For example, 3 is a positive number, but −3 is a negative number. It is read "negative three" or "minus three"; it means the opposite of 3.
Negative numbers are left of zero on a number line. A number and its opposite are always the same distance from zero. The negative number −3 is just as far to the left of zero as 3 is to the right of zero:
Sometimes, for emphasis, we write the pair of opposite numbers as −3 and +3.
A number and its opposite always add to zero. So the sum of −3 and +3 is 0. We can write this either as −3 + 3 = 0 or as 3 + (− 3) = 0. In addition, a number and its opposite are said to "cancel each other out".
 9 + (−1) = 9 − 1 = 8
 6 − (−8) = 6 + 8 = 14
 (−3) × (−2) = 3 × 2 = 6
 (−4) × 5 = −(4 × 5) = −20
When a person or company is in debt, people sometimes say they have a negative amount of money. Negative numbers are used in accounting and science.

</doc>
<doc id="18530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18530" title="Hail">
Hail

A piece of hail (called a hailstone) is a lump of ice that falls out of a storm cloud. About 5,000 hailstorms a year in the United States of America make hail 3/4 of an inch or bigger.
A hailstone begins as a small water drop or a round snow pellet in a cloud. The drop grows by collecting many cloud drops. The little drop is blown by a strong wind inside the cloud to where it meets with some extremely cold water drops. These supercooled drops are still liquid water even though the temperature is below freezing. When the little drop mixes with these extremely cold drops, they join, and the little drop has now become a hailstone.
The little hailstone is thrown up inside the cloud, still collecting other cold drops. The hailstone gets bigger and bigger until it goes to the top of the cloud. Then, because there is no more wind, it falls back down through the cloud. While it is falling it gets even bigger as it bangs into more supercooled drops. If it goes down very fast it can hit the earth at up to 90 mph (144 kph), bouncing like popcorn. If the hailstone hits dirt, it can actually bury itself.
The biggest hailstone recorded in the United States weighed 1.67 pounds (0.75 kg), and was 5.5 inches (14 cm) across. It fell near Coffeyville, Kansas, on September 3, 1970. The biggest recorded hailstone in the "world" was 4.2 pounds (almost 2 kilograms). It fell in Kazakhstan in Asia.
Hailstones are made of many rings of clear, cloudy ice. The rings show different amounts of freezing on the hailstone. The cloudy ice is because it freezes so quickly, trapping many small air bubbles. The clear rings are made by slow freezing of the water, which lets bubbles escape.
Hail does a very great amount of damage every year. Even small hail with strong winds can crush a field of wheat flat in a few minutes. It sometimes breaks windows, and can dent cars and roofs. Big hailstones can hurt and even kill small animals.
Because hail damages crops, there has been many efforts to stop hail. In the 16th century, farmers used to shoot cannons at thunderstorms, thinking this would destroy the hail. Cloud seeding (trying to make rain by putting dry ice crystals or a kind of smoke in clouds) is the more recent way, but it is expensive and we do not know for sure how well it works. To this day, there is no proved way of stopping hailstorms.

</doc>
<doc id="18531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18531" title="Academy Award">
Academy Award

The Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, are the best-known movie awards in the United States. The awards have been given by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences since 1929. The awards ceremony takes place each year in late February or early March in Hollywood, California. 
At the end of 1920s, the American film industry was in a crisis. When radio was invented, the people didn't go to the cinema. The owners of the studios had problems. They had to pay the workers for a good salary, but that was impossible at that time. Many people fought for a good salary and a good working time.
The director of the successful Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer-Studios, Louis B. Mayer met two good friends because he wanted to speak about the problem.
In the first years of the award, the trophy was called Academy Award of Merit. The godfather of the name Oscar is not clear. It is certain, that the name was used in 1931. There may be four people, who could be the godparents. The former board secretary of the academy Margaret Herrick said: "He looks like my uncle Oscar!". Bette Davis said that he looks like my first husband Harmon "Oscar" Nelson. The film columnist Sidney Skolsky said, that he is the name giver, and the fourth person was Walt Disney.
It is said that Oscar is not the official name of the statue. But the nickname is trademark-protected.
The statue is 13 ½ inches tall and weighs 8½ pounds.
Current Awards
Retired Awards
"Gone with the Wind f"rom the year 1939 was the most successful film for a long time with ten Oscars." "Then, in 1960," "Ben-Hur" "won eleven Oscars. In 1998 Titanic" "also won eleven Oscars, so they were in a tie. Six years later, "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" won eleven Oscars.
The five categories "best picture", "best director", "best actor", "best actress" and "best Original Screenplay" are the most important categories and they are called the "Big Five". There are only three films that won all these categories: "It Happened One Night", "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "The Silence of the Lambs".
"All About Eve" and "Titanic" had 14 nominations. This is the nomination record.
Katharine Hepburn (1907–2003) has the most awards as a performer. She got 4 Oscars in the category best actress. Meryl Streep has the most nominations as performers with 17 Oscar nomination. Jack Nicholson, Daniel Day-Lewis and Walter Brennan (1894–1974) have three Academy Awards amongst men. Nicholson has also the nomination record (12 nominations). The person, who has the most Academy Awards is Walt Disney (1901–1966) with 26, including 4 Honorary Oscars and he has 37 nominations. Moreover, he won 4 awards in 1954, so he got the most awards in one year. The woman, who has the most Oscars is the costume designer Edith Head (1897–1981). She has 8 Oscars and 27 nominations. The persons, who has the most Oscars and still living are the composer Alan Menken (8 Oscars) and Dennis Muren with 8 Oscars, including 3 special prices and 15 nominations. The cartoon characters Tom and Jerry are the trick movie stars, who have the most awards.

</doc>
<doc id="18533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533" title="Brake">
Brake

A brake is a device for slowing or stopping a moving machine part. The most common brakes are for wheels, such as those on cars and bicycles.

</doc>
<doc id="18534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18534" title="Bucket">
Bucket

A bucket is a container with a wide open top and a handle that is mainly used for carrying liquids. In some cases, solids may also be carried in a bucket (like sand which is hard to carry in your hands).
Some buckets are used for work, and some more for leisure, as seen here . A bucket used for work is often made of a strong material such as iron or steel and is used to carry things like coal or soil. A bucket used for leisure, e.g. for making sandcastles, is normally made of plastic.
In rare cases, a bucket may be worn as a piece of clothing, people may wear a bucket on their heads for humorous reasons. Buckethead is a famous example of this.

</doc>
<doc id="18536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18536" title="Light bulb">
Light bulb

A light bulb (also spelled lightbulb) is a device that produces light from electricity. In addition to lighting a dark space, they can be used to show an electronic device is on, to direct traffic, for heat, and many other purposes. 
Early people used candles and oil lamps for light (often from whale oil). Crude incandescent lights were made in the early and middle 19th century but had little use. Improved vacuum pumps and better materials made them shine longer and brighter late in the century. Electric generator stations brought electricity to urban and later rural areas to power them. Later gas discharge lights, including fluorescent lights, use less electricity to make more light.
There are several kinds of light bulbs: 
Light bulbs convert electricity into light and heat. Except for heat lamps, the heat is considered waste. A light bulb that produces more light and less heat is more efficient.
The incandescent light bulb turns electricity into light by sending the electric current through a thin wire called a filament. Filaments are made up mostly of tungsten, a metal. The resistance of the filament heats the bulb up. Eventually the filament gets so hot that it glows, producing light. 
The filament needs to be protected from oxygen in the air, so it is inside the bulb, and the air in the bulb is either removed (a vacuum) or more often, replaced with a gas that doesn't affect anything, like neon or argon. Only about 3% of the energy that goes into an incandescent light bulb actually makes light, the rest makes heat. That's one of the reasons LED's are more efficient.
This is the type of light bulb that Thomas Edison spent so much time on in the 1870s. It was the first light bulb that could be used in houses - it did not cost too much, and it worked well. For the first time, people did not have to burn something (candles, oil lamps, kerosene lamps, etc.) to make light. It was bright enough that people could read easily at night or do work. It was used to light stores and streets, and people could travel around after dark. This started the common use of electricity in homes and businesses. Tungsten filaments, developed in the 1900s, last longer and make a brighter light. They quickly replaced carbon ones.
Fluorescent lamps are efficient, and only give off ¼ the amount of heat of an incandescent. They also last longer than incandescent but until recently were much bigger and did not fit into sockets for small overhead lights and lamps like an incandescent could.
A fluorescent bulb is a glass tube usually filled with argon gas and a little bit of mercury. When turned on, the cathode heats up and sends out electrons. These hit the argon gas and the mercury. The argon gas makes a plasma which lets the electrons move around better. When the electrons hit a mercury atom it puts the molecule into a state where it has a lot of energy (stores the energy). The energetic state doesn't last very long, and when the energy is released, it lets out a photon. Photons from mercury are not visible like some other photons; they are ultraviolet. So there's a phosphor coating on the wall of the bulb. When the photon hits a phosphor molecule, it in turn puts that molecule into an excited state. When this phosphor releases energy, it lets out a photon that we can see, and light is made. Changing the type of phosphor can change the color we see, but usually fluorescent light bulbs are whiter than incandescent light bulbs, which are slightly yellow.
An LED is made like electronics. It is a chip of semiconducting material, usually silicon. LED bulbs are more efficient and last much longer than either incandescent or fluorescent bulbs. Unlike fluorescent bulbs, LEDs do not use mercury, which is toxic. Until recently LED bulbs were not as bright as the other kinds of lights, and cost more too.
Most light bulbs fit into a socket. If the socket is turned on, there is electricity there, even if the bulb is out, so there is danger of electric shock. Most bulbs get very hot when they are turned on, and take some time to cool off. Most light bulbs are made of glass, which means that they can break easily. Fluorescent bulbs contain a small amount of mercury, if they break, be careful to not breathe the mercury vapor. With all light bulbs , the filament will eventually break and the bulb will need to be replaced.

</doc>
<doc id="18537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18537" title="Grammy Award">
Grammy Award

The Grammy Awards (first named the Gramophone Awards and often called just Grammys), are awards given yearly by the (an association of Americans professionally involved in the recorded music industry) for outstanding work in the music and spoken recording industry. The Grammys have 108 categories with 30 genres. The Grammys are awarded once each year and are a major televised event.
The name "Grammy" comes from the word "gramophone". A gramophone was an old machine that played music on records.
The British equivalent is the Brit Awards. The Canadian equivalent is the Juno Awards.
Georg Solti has won 31 Grammy Awards, more than any other person.

</doc>
<doc id="18540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18540" title="Emmy Award">
Emmy Award

The Emmy Awards are United States television production awards which are given out each year. They are the television version of the Academy Awards. The first Emmy Awards were given out on January 25, 1949 at the Hollywood Athletic Club. Shirley Dinsdale was the very first person to be given an Emmy in the first awards ceremony. 
Three organizations give Emmy Awards:
The best-known of the awards are the Primetime Awards (some of which are named "Creative Arts Emmys") and the Daytime Emmy Awards.
The Emmy Awards is a statuette of a woman with wings holding an atom. It was created by television engineer Louis McManus, using his wife as a model. The trophies are made by a company that has a manufacturing site at the El Dorado Correctional Facility, a prison in El Dorado, Kansas. 

</doc>
<doc id="18544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18544" title="Maggie Simpson">
Maggie Simpson

Margaret "Maggie" Simpson is a fictional character shown in the animated television series "The Simpsons". She is a baby.
Like most babies, Maggie copies what she sees around her. She once hit Homer on the head with a mallet, shot a suction dart at his picture and attacked him with a pencil in imitation of "Itchy and Scratchy". Maggie is also very accurate with a gun, she shot Mr.Burns in "Who Shot Mr. Burns". 
During the early episodes, Maggie's well-known feature would be to trip over her clothes and fall on her face causing a loud smack on the floor. Throughout the early episodes, Maggie fell down 39 times.
Maggie was named after Matt Groening's sister Maggie Groening. She often sucked on a pacifier and wore a sleep suit like Maggie. Groening thought that it would be funny to have a baby character that did not talk and never grew up, but showed any emotions that the scene needed.
With few exceptions, Maggie never speaks but is aware of what is going around her. Maggie has spoken in "Good Night", the first cartoon to air on "The Tracey Ullman Show". When the rest of the family falls asleep, she speaks and her voice is played by Liz Georges.
Maggie's first word spoken in the normal television show of the series happened in "Lisa's First Word", when she was voiced by Elizabeth Taylor and says "Daddy" in an empty room. Elizabeth Taylor as Maggie was later named the 13th greatest guest spot in the history of the show. James Earl Jones, who voiced Maggie in Treehouse of Horror V, was in seventh place. She would later have small sentences in Treehouse of Horror IX, voiced by Harry Shearer, who used his Kang voice. Her squeaks and occasional speaking parts are regularly done by Nancy Cartwright or Yeardley Smith.

</doc>
<doc id="18545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18545" title="Marge Simpson">
Marge Simpson

Marjorie "Marge" Simpson is a character in the animated television series "The Simpsons". The characters voice is done by Julie Kavner. Marge is the wife of Homer Simpson and the mother of Bart, Lisa, and Maggie Simpson. She is famous for her very tall blue hair, that is shaped into a beehive. She also is proud to have never met anyone with taller hair outside Graceland. Marge was named after, and loosely based on, Margaret "Marge" Groening, Matt Groening's mother.
Marge’s image is normally that of a stereotypical sitcom mother who is sometimes seen as an inexperienced person and easy to be fooled. Despite having higher morals than most other characters, Marge has had her fair share of wild escapades throughout the show’s history. She was once a police officer in Springfield, took treatment for road rage, was once sent to jail for shoplifting, became a gambling fanatic, showed alcoholism, was an unwilling participant in a cross-country police chase, took steroids, cheated on a cooking competition and developed amnesia. She is also known for her persistent nagging and groaning. These are just some of the strange situations in which Marge has found herself. She also displays a surprisingly strong will. Marge is the only member of the family who normally tries to encourage the family to go to church. She also appears to have significant athletic ability in times of imminent danger. She can speak two languages fluently, one being English and the other in French.
Politically, Marge supports the Democratic Party. She once says that she voted for Jimmy Carter ("twice" according to Lisa), supported the candidacy of their state's governor Mary Bailey, and also stated to have been really depressed when Lyndon Johnson died.
Marge studied to be a painter. When she was a teenager she had a huge crush on Ringo Starr and painted a large number of portraits of him. She also wrote to him, but only received a reply 25 years later. His response inspired her to enter an art contest. Her portrait of a drunk Homer sleeping on the couch won the competition. She was then hired by Mr. Burns to do a portrait of him. The resulting portrait won even Mr. Burns’ praise, a massive feat in itself.
Marge also is a very skilled cook. She once started a pretzel business, which succeeded with the help of the Springfield Mafia. She has entered different cooking challenges, although situations such as cruel and ruthless competitors and overheated ovens made her to lose and even break or destroy the other competitors too. In general, she is shown as a very good cook. She is especially well known for her pork chops, Homer's favorite dish.
In some episodes Marge is shown being a fairly skilled photographer until she decided to choose Homer over photography.
As a teen, Marge had her hair long to at waist length which she always wore down, but got the idea to wear it in her trademark beehive for senior prom in the episode "The Way We Was". In the Shary Bobbins episode, her hair is shown close to her knees, meaning that a lot of hair would be needed to create her tall beehive. Marge has admitted that her hair is not really blue but is, in fact, gray. It was revealed by Homer in "Secrets of a Successful Marriage" that Marge dyes her hair with blue dye #56; "She’s been gray as a mule since she was seventeen." However, it is shown in the episode "Fear of Flying" that Marge's blue hair goes back to when she was a small child. Because of her unusually large hairstyle, her height is reported to be 8'6", as noted by Apu in the episode "Marge in Chains". In "The Way We Weren't", her hair was blue before she met Homer and was dark at one time because of Marge ironing a piece of her hair for a long time. In "The Simpsons" Season Four DVD commentary, Matt Groening states that the original idea behind Marge's hair was to hide large rabbit ears. The gag was intended to be revealed in the final episode of the series, but was cancelled early on because of its irregularity.
Like most of the other Simpsons characters, Marge's age changes from time to time throughout the show's history. In first-season episodes "Life on the Fast Lane" and "Some Enchanted Evening", Marge is said to be 34 years old, but her age was later changed to 38, possibly because she and Homer attended their twentieth anniversary high-school reunion in one episode. In the episode "Regarding Margie", Homer states that Marge is his age, meaning she could be anywhere between 36 and 40 years in age.

</doc>
<doc id="18546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546" title="Pin">
Pin

A pin is an object used to attach something to a surface. It is usually metal or plastic. Pins are usually sharp and are cheap to buy.

</doc>
<doc id="18547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18547" title="Dining room">
Dining room

A dining room is a room used for eating and is usually near the kitchen. This is to make serving food easier.
Usually a dining room will contain a table with a set of chairs, normally positioned at the sides and end of a table. People often only use their dining rooms now for formal occasions and eating in the kitchen has become more popular.

</doc>
<doc id="18549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18549" title="Crown">
Crown

A crown is a type of headdress worn by a monarch. They are usually worn when they are crowned or at important occasions. Also, crowns are now used as a symbol of the monarchy. They are also won by beauty pageant winners. 
"Crown" is also a synonym for prize or reward. Crowns are awarded or won at contests. Beauty contests award crowns to the winning participant, for example. Couples chosen the King and Queen at a dance also receive crowns. 
Some children, mainly girls, connect flowers in a chain and wear them on their heads as if they were crowns. These are called "daisy chains" and have nothing at all to do with crowns. A crown can also be a part of the head.
A diadem is a type of crown, an ornamental headband worn by monarchs and others as a badge of royalty. 

</doc>
<doc id="18551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18551" title="Rudolf Hess">
Rudolf Hess

Walter Richard Rudolf Hess (Heß in German) (26 April 1894 – 17 August 1987) was a high ranking Nazi leader, and one of Adolf Hitler's closest men. He was the third man after Hermann Göring in the Third Reich from 1933 to 1941.
Rudolf Hess was born in Alexandria, Egypt, but moved back to Germany in 1908.
He joined the army in World War I and was trained as a pilot. He flew to Scotland during World War II and was arrested. After the war he was tried at the Nuremberg Trials, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
He died in the Allied Military Prison, Spandau, Berlin in 1987. Since 1966 he had been the only prisoner. His death was caused by a strangulation using an electrical cord; officials recorded it as a suicide.

</doc>
<doc id="18552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18552" title="1780s">
1780s


</doc>
<doc id="18553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18553" title="1510s">
1510s


</doc>
<doc id="18554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18554" title="Quantum entanglement">
Quantum entanglement

Quantum entanglement is the name given to a special connection between pairs or groups of quantum systems, or any objects described by quantum mechanics. Quantum entanglement is one of the biggest parts of quantum mechanics that makes it hard to understand in terms of the everyday world.
When we look at particles, we usually say that each particle has its own quantum state. Sometimes, two particles can act on one another and become an entangled system. When a pair or group of particles can only be described by the quantum state for the system, and not by individual quantum states, we say the particles are "entangled".
Entanglement between particles happens because little particles can push and pull on each other, just like big objects do in terms of gravity. If nothing else is acting on those particles, then there are certain things before and after the particles act on each other that have to stay the same. For example, the total momentum of both particles put together would be (roughly) the same before and after they act on each other.
Heisenberg's uncertainty principle tells us we can never know the momentum of a particle exactly, or even the total momentum of both particles put together. In fact, we can't ever know exactly what the momentum of a particle will be before we measure it, but we do know always that the total momentum of the two particles put together doesn't change when the particles act on each other.
In order to be sure that the total momentum is the same before and after the particles act on one another, we need to describe a pair of particles as a single quantum system rather than a pair of quantum systems. If this weren't true, the Conservation law for momentum would be violated due to the quantum uncertainty of the momentum of each particle.
Even though each particle has a lot of information about the other, they do not send messages to each other. There are no messages between the particles saying, "I'm going down, therefore, you must go up" and waiting for the particle to receive the message. Yet, the particles are always connected and can behave as one.
Quantum entanglement is one of the concepts that led Albert Einstein to dislike the theory of quantum mechanics. With his co-workers, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen, Einstein used entanglement to try to show weaknesses in quantum mechanics. Einstein called entanglement "spooky action at a distance". He said this because he did not believe that quantum particles could affect one another faster than the speed of light. He tried to show that this weird effect means that quantum mechanics gives an incomplete picture of what really goes on and that in the future it will be taken care of with extra "hidden" variables.
Erwin Schrödinger talked about entanglement in the same article where he described Schrödinger's cat.
Years later, John Bell showed with his theorem that we can tell if this "spooky action at a distance" is real or not. After that, experiments using Bell's theorem proved that entanglement actually happens between tiny particles.
Scientists are trying to use quantum entanglement for many different things. Some things are sending completely secret messages (passing notes that can't be intercepted), and making computers faster than ever before thought possible. However, entanglement between a pair of particles is a very delicate thing and is easily destroyed. Because of this, it is difficult to use quantum entanglement to do these things. Currently, many scientists are working on making stronger systems where entanglement is stronger and lasts longer to try to do these things more easily.
Although you can do some things to one particle to try to cause a change in its partner particle, you can't use this (by itself) to send information from one particle to another because it is only possible to control how likely the change will happen. The outcome of whatever measurement you make on a single particle is completely random, and so is the change that results in the partner particle. In other words, changing one particle may change its partner particle, but you cannot guarantee exactly which way you will influence them. Because scientists cannot control exactly what changes between entangled particles occur, it is not possible to use quantum entanglement alone to send messages. If you also send information about the state of the single particle classically (by phone, radio, carrier pigeon, etc.), you can use the entanglement they share to teleport the quantum state of one particle to another particle.
Also, without sending information about the partner particle, there's no way to tell if a given particle is single or half of an entangled pair. With no outside information, a single particle is completely like any other. It's only when you can receive information about the other particle that you will be able to figure out if your particle is one part of an entangled pair. Because of this, no one can use entanglement to send information faster than the speed of light because you would need another faster than light communicator to do it.

</doc>
<doc id="18555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18555" title="Amin Maalouf">
Amin Maalouf

Amin Maalouf is a Lebanese author. He was born on 25 February, 1949 in Beirut, Lebanon. He studied sociology at the French University in Beirut. He was the director of the Beirut daily newspaper "an-Nahar". But, he left the country 1975 at the start of the Lebanese Civil War. He moved to Paris and still lives there today.
Maalouf writes in French, and his works have been translated into many languages. He received the Prix Goncourt in 1993 for his book "Rock of Tanios".
He uses his experiences of civil war and migration in writing his novels. The characters in his novels are wanderers. They may not have just one home country, language, or religions.

</doc>
<doc id="18556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18556" title="Bulb">
Bulb

A bulb is the part of some plants, mostly under the dirt, that stores food while the plant is resting from growing (a "storage organ").
Some well-known bulbs people grow to use as food are onions and garlic. Some bulbs grown for the decorative flowers are the lily, tulip, and some irises.
Some plant storage organs that are similar to bulbs, but have different names are, tubers, corms (swollen stems), tuberous roots, and pseudobulbs.

</doc>
<doc id="18561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18561" title="1520s">
1520s


</doc>
<doc id="18563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18563" title="Wave">
Wave

A wave is a disturbance in the medium which causes the particles of the medium to undergo vibratory motion about their mean position. The motion repeats in equal intervals of time and can be described by a periodic function.
Waves play an important role in our daily life. This is because waves are a carrier of energy and information over large distances. Waves require some oscillating or vibrating source. Ocean surface waves were the first known waves. Later, other kinds were discovered.
There are two categories of waves.
Waves which require any medium for their propagation are called mechanical waves. 
For example:
Water waves, sound waves, and waves produced on the string and spring.
Waves which do not require any medium for their propagation are called electromagnetic waves.
For example:

</doc>
<doc id="18565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18565" title="Gluon">
Gluon

Gluons are what hold quarks together to make bigger particles. Gluons carry the strong force between other quarks, so it is considered a force carrying particle. Photons do the same thing, but for the electromagnetic force. Also, like photons, gluons are spin-1 particles, and when a particle has spin-1 it is considered a boson.
Gluons are hard to study because although they exist in nature all the time, they are so small and require so much energy to break them away from quarks (about 2 trillion degrees) that scientists have only been able to find more about them from particle colliders such as the Large Hadron Collider at CERN.

</doc>
<doc id="18567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18567" title="Humphry Davy">
Humphry Davy

Sir Humphry Davy, 1st Baronet, FRS (Fellow of the Royal Society) (born 17 December 1778 in Penzance, Cornwall, England; died 29 May 1829 in Geneva City, Switzerland), was a chemist whose study of electrochemistry led to the first pure forms of some of the chemical elements such as potassium and sodium.

</doc>
<doc id="18569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18569" title="Myxobolus cerebralis">
Myxobolus cerebralis

Myxobolus cerebralis is a small Myxozoan parasite that eats the insides of fish like salmon and trout, causing whirling disease. 
This is a problem in fish farming and also in natural fish groups. In the last 100 years, it has spread to most of Europe (including Russia), the United States, South Africa, and other countries. In the 1980s, people found out that "M. cerebralis" needs to live in a worm before it can live in a fish. It infects both the fish and the worm by poking a hole in them and putting part of itself in.
Whirling disease hurts young fish the most, and can hurt bones and nerves. Fish with the disease do not swim very well, and they "whirl" or spin instead of swimming straight. This makes it hard for the fish to get food and get away from danger. Dealing with "M. cerebralis" costs more money than most other parasites in its group (which are called "myxozoans"). People do not get sick with whirling disease, though; only fish do.
At first, people thought that this parasite infected fish brains, so they named it "cerebralis", which means brain-related. Then, people found out that it mostly infects cartilage and bones. They tried to change the name, but they could not. Later, they found out that other creatures called "Triactinomyxon dubium" and "T. gyrosalmo"were actually stages of "M. cerebralis." It would be like finding out that caterpillars are really young butterflies even though they look very different.
Many scientists think of Myxozoans like "M. cerebralis", as animals, but books still call them protozoans. Peopole are not sure what it's related to. Under a microscope, they look a lot like Cnidarians like jellyfish, but the scientists that look at chemicals and genes think that it's closer to other animals called Bilaterians..
"M. cerebralis" has many stages ranging from single cells to bigger spores. Scientists have not studied all the stages very well yet. 
The kind of "M. cerebralis" that can attack fish is called a "Triactinomyxon", and there is a picture of it on the right. There are three "tails" that are each about 200 micrometers long, and another piece that is about 150 micrometers (μm) long. That piece has 64 cells in it. There are also three harpoon-like weapons that can attack the fish. They shoot into the fish, making a hole that the 64 cells can go into. Those cells make more cells that go to the cartilage near the fish's brain.
The kind of "M. cerebralis" that comes out of fish is called a "Myxospore". They are sort of round and fat in the middle like a lentil or a convex lens. They are about 10 micrometers across and are made of six cells. Two are for the harpoon weapons, two are for protecting the Myxospore, and two are for going into a worm after the weapons make a hole. Myxospores from "M. cerebralis" look a lot like Myxospores from other species that are sometimes in fish skin, muscle, or brains, and so it's hard to tell them apart.

</doc>
<doc id="18575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18575" title="Aamir Khan">
Aamir Khan

Aamir Khan (born March 14, 1965 in Mumbai) is a Bollywood actor. Khan first appeared in "Yaadon Ki Baaraat" (1973) as a child actor. His first big starring role was in "Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak" (1988).
Another of his best-known adult roles was starring in "" (2001), which was nominated for an Oscar. Khan was credited as producer for the movie, with his first wife (1986-2002), Reena Datta, executive producer. Khan met his future second wife (2005-), Kiran Rao, on the set, where she was an assistant director.
Their first movie released in 2006 is "Rang De Basanti" after divorce with Reena

</doc>
<doc id="18576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576" title="Bahá'í Faith">
Bahá'í Faith

The Bahá'í Faith is an Abrahamic religion started in the 1800s by an Iranian person called Bahá'u'lláh who was born in Tehran, Iran. Followers of this religion call themselves Bahá'ís. The name Bahá'u'lláh is Arabic for "The Glory of God". "Glory" is a word that means "importance", "power", and "beauty". Bahá'ís believe Bahá'u'lláh is a representation of God, or speaks for God, and he shows people God's importance, beauty, and brightness.
Bahá'ís are monotheists (which means that they believe in one God). They believe Bahá'u'lláh carried a message from God. Bahá'u'lláh said he was not the only person to carry a message from God, and he was not the last to carry a message from God. He taught that the people who started the other major religions also represented and carried messages from God, such as Jesus, Moses, Abraham, Muhammad, Krishna, the Buddha and others. He called these people "Manifestations of God." They believe the messages from the Manifestations of God get more and more difficult to understand. They say the ones that came earlier on had a more simple message than the ones that came later. Because God is greater than the whole universe, Bahá'u'lláh said that human beings cannot completely know God. He said that God wants people to know as much about him as they can. Bahá'u'lláh wrote God sends special people to manifest (show) himself to ordinary humans. Without the Manifestations of God we could not know God. Bahá'ís believe the God they pray to is the same God Abraham spoke to, Jesus talked about, and Krishna said in Gita. Since Bahá'u'lláh was born in a Muslim family, Bahá'ís are sometimes mistaken as Muslims. Bahá'u'lláh is considered the prophet/manifestation of the present day. Bahá'ís say that he is not the last prophet/manifestation of God. They think there will not be another prophet for 1,000 years after Baha'u'llah's death.
The Bahá'í Faith began on 1844 when a man called the Báb said he had a message from God. He said that it was his job to make sure that people were ready for the most important message from God who would be sent soon. This started a religion, followers of this religion were called Bábís. Many people became Bábís in the country of Iran, which was called Persia at the time, and this made the government of Persia and the Muslim priests angry. They arrested and killed the Bab and his followers. Even though this happened, people still followed this religion.
Before Bahá'u'lláh said he had a message from God, he was a member of the religion that was started by the Báb. He became very famous among the Bábís. When the Báb was killed, some Bábís got very angry and tried to kill the king of Persia, even though Bahá'u'lláh told them not to kill him. When the Babis were caught, the government put many Bábís in jail, including Bahá'u'lláh. While in jail at Tehran, Bahá'u'lláh said he saw an angel that he called the "maid of heaven". The angel told him that he had to teach a message from God to the people of the world. The angel said that God would rescue and protect him so that he could teach this message. Eventually, he was released from jail and the government of Persia made him move to Baghdad, which was then controlled by the king of the Ottoman Empire.
While Baha'u'llah was in Baghdad, he had many problems, but he also made many friends. The government of Persia was unhappy that he seemed to be doing well in Baghdad, and so they asked the Ottoman Empire to move him further away from Persia. When he was about to leave, in 1863, he held a festival for 12 days on a small island in the Tigris river, which he called Ridvan, which means paradise. There he told some of his closest friends and family that he was the promised one of all of the major religions, and that eventually the whole world would know his message.
Eventually the Ottoman Empire sent him to many different cities, including Constantinople, Adrianople, Alexandria, and eventually Akka. He was in different jails this whole time, and the city of Akka had a big wall around it, and it was one big jail. While he was in Baghdad, and after, he wrote many books and letters to answer questions that his friends and followers asked him. At one point he was poisoned, so that he could not write anymore because his hands shook so badly. After that, he had someone write down what he said. When he was even older, his oldest son, `Abdu'l-Bahá arranged to have him move into a house near Mount Carmel, and he stayed there until he finally died in 1892.
After he died, people followed `Abdu'l-Bahá. Bahá'u'lláh had written that `Abdu'l-Bahá had special powers, and that God would make sure that if `Abdu'l-Bahá explained anything that Bahá'u'lláh said, then the Bahá'ís should believe that explanation. `Abdu'l-Bahá also wrote a lot of letters and gave talks, and eventually visited Paris, London, Montreal, New York City, San Francisco and other cities in the west. This helped the Bahá'í Faith to spread in Europe and North America. He died in 1921. He left a will, where he told the Bahá'ís to follow his grandson, Shoghi Effendi.
Shoghi Effendi was born in 1900 and was only a young man when his grandfather died and he became the leader of the Bahá'ís. He helped make the different agencies and councils that run the Bahá'í Faith today, and organized the religion in many ways. He also wrote many books and letters to explain the teachings of his grandfather and great-grandfather. He lived until 1957 and died in England.
After Shoghi Effendi died, the Bahá'ís did not have leaders for six years, because Shoghi Effendi had not left a will. Shoghi Effendi did have helpers, who did not think they were allowed to lead the Bahá'ís, so they helped the Bahá'í Community follow the last plan that Shoghi Effendi left them, and at the end of that plan, in 1963, they organized an election to form the Universal House of Justice, which Bahá'u'lláh wrote about. The Universal House of Justice has led the Bahá'ís ever since.
Bahá'u'lláh wrote many books and letters, and `Abdu'l-Bahá (whose name means "Servant of Glory") also wrote many books and letters which Bahá'ís see as special. Finally, Bahá'u'lláh's great-grandson Shoghi Effendi wrote lots of books and letters which Bahá'ís use to better understand the writings of Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá. The most important of these books is the Aqdas.
Bahá'ís also believe that the Bible, the Qur'an, the Gita and other books from other religions are special.
Some important Bahá'í beliefs are:
There are eight or nine million Bahá'ís in the world, of all peoples and languages. The Bahá'í Faith looks different in different countries, because there are few rituals, so Bahá'ís can include their own culture in the way they celebrate Bahá'í events, say prayers, etc.
Bahá'ís meet every nineteen (19) days in a meeting called a "Feast". There does not have to be food, but there usually is. These meetings start with prayers and usually someone reads aloud some holy writings. Sometimes there is music and song, sometimes plays, sometimes just quiet time or meditation. After this time, which Bahá'ís call the "devotional" time in a feast, they have a community discussion. All sorts of topics can be discussed here that are important to the members. Bahá'ís say that this is a "consultative" time, where Bahá'ís can consult with each other. After this, there is a social time, where people can share food, drink (not alcohol), and sometimes here there is also music, or plays, or presentations, or other entertainment. This time is just so that the Bahá'ís in that city can get to know each other and become better friends.
Bahá'ís often do not have one place they get together, except in large cities. In smaller places they usually get together in each other's houses. Some larger cities have "Bahá'í Centers" which can be used for community meetings, classes, or for meetings of committees and other councils. (see Institutions below) 
In a very few cities in the world, there are Bahá'í temples. These temples are on each continent. 
Bahá'ís are organized in a worldwide community. They do not have priests. Everyone is responsible for their own prayers. Bahá'ís are also responsible for reading their holy books for themselves and for learning about their religion. Baha'is elect leaders for their community, to help organize their activities, and to deal with problems between members, and to decide things that are not obvious from the scriptures. These are called Spiritual Assemblies, but will one day be called Houses of Justice. 
There is one House of Justice, which Bahá'ís call the Universal House of Justice, which leads the whole worldwide Bahá'í community. Bahá'ís elect this House of Justice every five years, but only once each year for National and Local Spiritual Assemblies.

</doc>
<doc id="18577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18577" title="Neoclassical economics">
Neoclassical economics

Neoclassical economics is an economic theory that argues for markets to be free. This means governments should generally not make rules about types of businesses, businesses' behaviour, who may make things, who may sell things, who may buy things, prices, quantities or types of things sold and bought. The theory argues that allowing individual actors (people or businesses) freedom creates better economic outcomes. These outcomes may be a higher average standard of living, higher wages, better average life-expectancies, and higher GDP. 
Markets are an abstract idea: assumed to be all the 'actors' (businesses or people) selling one thing, service or type of thing or service, and all the 'actors' buying it. 
Markets will 'reach equilibrium' if all the sellers who want to sell at or below a given price have sold to all the buyers who are willing to buy at or above a given price. the price is worked out in the market.
It may be easier to think about this in reverse: The market is not in equilibrium if people want to buy a haircut for ten (or more) dollars and someone is happy to sell the person a haircut for ten (or less) dollars, but for some reason this does not happen. 
Neoclassical economists say this will not happen. Neo-Keynesians say it might, so the government could make the customer and the person selling the haircut happier by helping the customer somehow.
Neo-Keynesian economy is an alternative Neoclassical economy. The major point of difference between neoclassical economics and neo-Keynesian economics is about whether 'markets' 'reach equilibrium'. 

</doc>
<doc id="18589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18589" title="Nile">
Nile

The Nile ( "an-nīl") is a river in Africa. It is the longest river on Earth (about 6,650 km or 4,132 miles), and flows into the Mediterranean Sea near Alexandria. It gets its name from the Greek word Νεῖλος "Neilos". 
The White Nile flows from Lake Victoria in Uganda, and through Sudan to Khartoum, where it is joined by the Blue Nile to form the Nile, then through Egypt. The Blue Nile flows through Ethiopia. About 300 million cubic metres of water flow down the Nile each day.
The Nile is very important to the countries where it flows. Many cities in Egypt are built next to the river. Also, the pyramids are close to the Nile. The Nile has always provided most of the water used to grow crops in Egypt and for anything else, since much of the rest of the country is in a desert. The Nile was very important to Ancient Egyptians. In ancient times the Nile flooded every year and the people would starve if there was not enough water for the crops. The Ancient Egyptians got papyrus from the Nile.
Many different types of animals live in or near the waters of the Nile, including crocodiles, birds, fish and many others. Not only do animals depend on the Nile for survival, but also people who live there need it for everyday use like washing, as a water supply, keeping crops watered and other jobs.
Pyramids were built close to the Nile because they needed the granite stones from Aswan to be transported by barges down the Nile.
The word "Nile" comes from Greek "Neilos" (). Neilos came from the word "river valley". In the ancient Egyptian language, the Nile is called "Ḥ'pī" or "iteru", meaning "great river", represented by the hieroglyphs shown above (literally "itrw", and 'waters' determinative). In Coptic, the words "piaro" (Sahidic) or "phiaro" (Bohairic) meaning "the river" (lit. p(h).iar-o "the.canal-great") come from the same ancient name. 

</doc>
<doc id="18592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18592" title="Statue">
Statue

A Statue is a model of somebody or something, usually of a person or sometimes an animal. It is a sculpture. Several kinds of material can be used to make a statue, e.g. stone, bronze, clay, or wood. Statues are often at least life-size (the same size as the real person), but often they are much bigger, especially statues in the open air. Statues are often made to remember an important person (such as the statue of Alfred the Great), or to remember an event or an idea (such as the Statue of Liberty).
Usually there is some writing on a statue to say who the person is. This writing is called an epigraph. The statue may be standing on a base. This base is called a "plinth".
A bust is a statue of the head, shoulders and upper body of a person.
A colossus is an enormous statue.
A statue of someone on horseback (riding a horse) is called an equestrian statue.

</doc>
<doc id="18594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18594" title="Help:Change conflict">
Help:Change conflict

This page is about change conflicts, and what to do when they happen. To know how change conflicts happen and what they are, think about what will happen when:
At the top of the change conflict page is a box containing Alice's version of the whole page, even if Bob is only changing a section of the page.
At the bottom of the page showing the change conflict is a second box containing the text Bob was going to submit. This will be Bob's version of the page or section he was changing.
Between the two boxes is a diff that show the difference between Alice's and Bob's version of the article. For the section Bob is changing it shows Bob's changes and Alice's possible changes, except for sections where Bob and Alice have both made the same change. For the other sections it shows the full new text as if all that text was added.
Bob can change in the upper box and press Save. "In the case Bob was changing only a section, this will be interpreted as the new version of the section, hence produce duplication of the other sections, unless Bob deletes them before saving." (This seems to be a bug.) The best solution in this case is to "save your new text" (e.g., to the clipboard), cancel out, then try again.
At certain times when pressing Save and the system is slow, one may be able to make multiple changes to the same page before the system responds. "This produces a change conflict with oneself." In this case the upper text may be the old version instead of the one involving the first change, i.e., the system notices the earlier change but has not processed it yet. A moment later, while one is viewing the change conflict page, the first change is carried out in the background, and the upper text no longer is the current one. Hence, the diff shows the combined changes, and in the case of section changing, like before, the "addition" of the other sections. If you choose to save your work in this type of change conflict, it will result in the removal of your previous changing from the page.
If Bob only made small changes, and Alice made large changes, he may choose to work from Alice's version, and re-merge his changes in. Bob might choose to add some text like "by change conflict" to the change summary, or use template on a Discussion/Talk page, to warn Alice and others that he had to do this – Alice can then his merging for accuracy.
If Bob made large changes, and Alice made small changes, he may choose to work from his version. One choice is for Bob to copy the bottom text into the top text (or just copy over the one section of the top text, if Bob was changing a section), with an appropriate (for example, "via change conflict, will remerge"). Then Bob can view the page history, determine Alice's changes, and re-apply them to his version, in a separate change.
If both Alice and Bob made large changes, matters become complicated, and Alice and Bob just have to do the best they can. For example, if both Alice and Bob add a large section of text on the same subject at the same time, then it may be best for Bob to submit his changes, and then for Alice and Bob to both have a look at the two versions and decide between themselves which version is better.
Bob should not just post his changes over the top of Alice's. We – mistakes are occasionally made, and newcomers may not understand the change conflict window. However, Bob must not routinely ignore change conflicts. It is absolutely not acceptable for Bob to overwrite Alice out of laziness. We encourage contributors to double-check their merges by using the feature.
Some people change pages by copying the source text into a text changer, making lots of changes (reorganising, adding new content, etc.), and then, when they're done, pasting the whole thing back onto Wikipedia as a single (new) change. If someone else has made changes in the meantime these changes would get lost in the paste back. People who change pages this way should either:
Sometimes mistakes will be made in the merging process, because Bob is human, and this may cause some of Alice's changes to be accidentally reversed. Logical change conflicts aren't always immediately visible. Sometimes Bob may have good reasons for thinking that Alice's improvements aren't useful. In these case, Alice and Bob are expected to resolve their differences amicably.
If Alice made a small change, which Bob accidentally reversed, then Alice must not revert to her version. It is absolutely not acceptable for Alice to reverse Bob's major improvements to the page out of a desire to protect her minor improvements, or to punish Bob for his carelessness. This is particularly important if the page has subsequently been changed by, say, Sarah and Jonathan.
The best approach for Alice in this circumstance is for Alice to change Bob's version, reinstate her minor improvements, and leave Bob's major improvements intact. She may also add something to the change summary to indicate that she had to do this – for example: "Reinstating link which Bob accidentally removed". Bob should then apologise to Alice for his mistake, and thank her for reinstating her improvement.
If Bob repeats his error, then the best approach is for Alice to have a friendly word on his talk page, point him to this page, and ask him if he could take a little more care in the future. This is particularly important for newcomers, who may not understand the correct way to resolve change conflicts, though even experienced users may need the occasional friendly reminder.
When saving a previous version (i.e., when reverting) or a new version based on that (a modified reversion) the change conflict warning and prevention system is not triggered and a possible new change made in the meantime is unintentionally reverted also, see . To avoid this problem one can copy the text from the box of the old version into the box of the latest version. In some sense, this can cause "hidden change conflicts": you may overwrite someone else's changes without realising that you are doing so. It's always wise to check the after performing a revert, just as you would after posting via change conflict. Preferably, one can simply try to avoid reversion wars.
Because change conflicts are irritating and time-consuming, you may choose to alter your changing habits to render them less frequent: aiming to make more changes to pages that have not been changed recently.
Another means of avoiding change conflicts is to make a single larger change, rather than frequent smaller changes: this makes it more likely that you will get an change conflict, but less likely that you will cause others to get an change conflict. Using the "" button helps here.
To reduce the chance of change conflicts, Wikipedia has an "In Use" notice in its namespace that people may use when changing a page over a long period of time. Simply put on an article before proceeding with a major change, and remove the template when the changing is complete.
New since v.1.3 is CVS-style change conflict merging, based on the diff3 utility. This feature will only trigger a change conflict if users attempt to change the same few lines. See also .

</doc>
<doc id="18600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18600" title="Golden Retriever">
Golden Retriever

Golden Retrievers are a very popular kind of dog. When the breed was first created, they were used for hunting. Now, they are sometimes used for hunting, but a lot of people like to have them as pets because they are very friendly. People also like them because their face looks like they are smiling all the time. Because they are so friendly, Golden Retrievers cannot be used as guard dogs, but they are good as drug dogs at airports and very good as service dogs for the blind (People who cannot see). They also like people, so when they are left alone for too long, they get very sad.
Golden Retrievers are very good family dogs because they extremely sweet and gentle with young children and do not bark very much. They are known for having a "soft mouth," and some have even been seen carrying raw eggs in their mouth without breaking them. Goldens are well known for their calm and easy going temperament. They are great family dogs and provide good companionship. They are very smart and eager to please, which allows them to be easily trained. Golden Retrievers are very active dogs and need a lot of exercise. Goldens make wonderful pets, but they need to be exercised regularly to prevent weight gain and promote overall health. They require a great deal of grooming, as they shed hair daily. Goldens also enjoy the cool water.
A good Golden Retriever has a strong body and a long coat that is yellow or gold. Their fur even stops water because it has two special layers, one short and one long. They always have brown eyes and can show a lot of emotions with them. When they get old, their face turns white, but when they are young, they should not have any white on them. A normal male dog weighs about 29 to 36 kilograms(65 to 80 pounds) and a normal female dog weighs about 27 to 32 kilograms (60 to 70 pounds). From their front paws to their upper back, they are about 56 to 61 centimetres (22 to 25 inches) tall.
As said earlier, Goldens are used a lot for people who cannot see, but they are also used for obedience trials and as assistant dogs for people who have seizures or cannot hear. They are very good at smelling things, so they are also good for hunting. The second part of their name, retriever, is very true because they love to fetch things for their people! Goldens love to catch tennis balls and frisbees. Goldens also enjoy the water.
There are two different kinds of Golden Retrievers: show dogs and field dogs. Show dogs have very long hair and a lighter color, but field dogs have a lot more differences. They have short hair and can have any shade of hair. Because they have shorter hair, it is easier to brush them because they do not get as many things caught in it.
Like a lot of purebred dogs, Goldens can have bad health. A big problem for Goldens is hip dysplasia, which makes the dog's bones hurt at its hips. Also, a lot of Goldens have skin allergies, so people have to be very careful to not wash the dog too much and make sure that it does not get fleas. It is also important to clean a Goldens ears regularly because their long ears do not give the ear canal a chance to breathe. Goldens also have problems with their eyes sometimes, but it's mostly when they get older.It is important when purchasing a new Golden Retriever puppy to review the medical history of their parents. Oftentimes "backyard breeders" have been known to over breed or breed dogs with health problems. A reputable breeder should be able to supply the most current heatlth records for the dogs which they are breeding.
Golden Retrievers were developed by Lord Tweedmouth in Scotland. He took a yellow dog and another dog called a Tweed Water Spaniel, which is a dog that does not exist anymore. All Golden Retrievers are related to these two dogs. The breed was created to be stronger than other retrievers but more gentle with people so they could be trained very easily.
In 1903, the breed was added to the list of the Kennel Club of England, but it was not added to the list of the American Kennel Club until 1932. Now, there are millions of Goldens around the world and they remain as one of the most popular breeds.
Golden Retriever called 'Liberty' belonged to United States President Gerald R. Ford. 
This breed was in many films and TV series, including: Air Bud and Air Bud: Golden Receiver, Full House, Homeward Bound:
The Incredible Journey and Homeward Bound II: Lost in San Francisco,Fluke, Napoleon, Up, Pushing Daisies, and The Drew Carey Show. 
A dog called Cash from The Fox and the Hound 2 was a mix of Golden Retriever and other breed.

</doc>
<doc id="18603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18603" title="Idea">
Idea

When a person thinks of something, that which he/she thinks about is called an "idea". Ideas are concepts created in the mind. No one really knows how this works. Ideas are a mental product. 
One idea can change the whole world. If someone has a better idea, they can sell it to others. 

</doc>
<doc id="18605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18605" title="Connection">
Connection

A connection is when two things are put together. This can either be a 'real' connection, like a chain linking two objects, or you can use the word in a figurative way. You might talk about a train connection between two cities, and mean the trains running between them.

</doc>
<doc id="18609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18609" title="Nobuo Uematsu">
Nobuo Uematsu

Nobuo Uematsu (植松 伸夫; Uematsu Nobuo, born March 21, 1959) is a Japanese composer of video game music. He stays busy making lots of different types of music for games. A lot of the music he makes is for games produced by Squaresoft and Square Enix, including the "Final Fantasy" series of role-playing games, and some music for "Chrono Trigger".

</doc>
<doc id="18612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18612" title="Category:Japanese people">
Category:Japanese people


</doc>
<doc id="18613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18613" title="Dharma">
Dharma

Dharma (or dhamma) is part of many religions or spiritual beliefs that began in India. The oldest is Hinduism. Buddhism, Ayyavazhi, Jainism, and Sikhism also believe in the same idea. It means "the law" of spiritual growth of believers.
In Buddhism, the word "Dharma" also means the very old teachings of the Buddha. For example, The Four Noble Truths.
In Hinduism, dharma is the spiritual law for human beings. It is the way of goodness, truth and duty. For example, for a youth, a big part of dharma is to be a good student. Parents’ dharma is to raise and support their family. A teacher’s dharma is to teach, and the dharma of the police is to protect others. Each age brings new responsibilities, so dharma will change over your lifetime. It is everyone’s dharma to be honest, kind and religious, to do no harm to others and to be a good citizen. Hindus believe that following dharma fulfills the highest purpose on earth. When people follow dharma, they feel good about themselves, and life is most rewarding.

</doc>
<doc id="18615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18615" title="Category:Turkish football clubs">
Category:Turkish football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18616" title="Category:Welsh football clubs">
Category:Welsh football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18617" title="Category:Spanish football clubs">
Category:Spanish football clubs


</doc>
<doc id="18619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18619" title="Columbus">
Columbus

Columbus usually refers to:
It might also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18621" title="Category:Waterfalls">
Category:Waterfalls


</doc>
<doc id="18622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622" title="Category:Cities in South Africa">
Category:Cities in South Africa


</doc>
<doc id="18629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18629" title="Nucleus">
Nucleus

Nucleus (plural: nuclei) means the center of something. It might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18630" title="Walter Sisulu">
Walter Sisulu

Walter Max Ulyate Sisulu (18 May 1912 – 5 May 2003) was a South African activist and politician. He fought against apartheid. Sisulu was the Secretary-General of the African National Congress from 1949 to 1954. Over the next 10 years he was put in prison seven times. 
He was one of many people, including Nelson Mandela to be found guilty of treason during trials between 1956 and 1961. He was sent to prison for 6 years because of this. While free on bail, he went into hiding. He was found in 1963 and put on trial again. In 1964, he as sent to prison for the rest of his life. He was released from prison in 1989. 
In 1991, he became the Deputy-President of the African National Congress. He held the position from July 1991 to 1994. Sisulu died from Parkinson's disease on 5 May 2003, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="18635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18635" title="List of U.S. state capitals">
List of U.S. state capitals

This is a list of United States state capital cities. Each city is the center of government for a state in the United States, usually in the capitol building. The state capital city with the fewest people is Montpelier, Vermont, while the capital city with the most people is Phoenix, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="18636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18636" title="Juneau, Alaska">
Juneau, Alaska

The City and Borough of Juneau is the capital city of Alaska. It has been the capital of Alaska since 1906. 
The government of the then-District of Alaska was moved from Sitka by the decision of the U.S. Congress. The municipality unified in 1970 when the city of Juneau merged with the city of Douglas and the surrounding Greater Juneau Borough to form the current home rule municipality.
The area of Juneau is larger than that of Rhode Island and Delaware individually and almost as large as the two states combined. Downtown Juneau is at the base of Mount Juneau and across the channel from Douglas Island. As of the 2010 census, the City and Borough had a population of 31,275. 
Juneau is named after gold prospector Joe Juneau, though the place was for a time called Rockwell and then Harrisburg (after Juneau's co-prospector, Richard Harris). 
The Tlingit name of the town is Dzántik'i Héeni (""river where the flounders gather"), and Auke Bay just north of Juneau proper is called "Aak'w" ("little lake"") in Tlingit. The Taku River, just south of Juneau, was named after the cold "t'aakh" wind, which occasionally blows down from the mountains.
Downtown Juneau sits at sea level, with tides averaging , below steep mountains about to high. Atop these mountains is the Juneau Icefield, a large ice mass from which about 30 glaciers flow; two of these, the Mendenhall Glacier and the Lemon Creek Glacier, are visible from the local road system; the Mendenhall glacier has been generally retreating; its front face is declining both in width and height.
The Alaska State Capitol in downtown Juneau was originally built as the Federal and Territorial Building in 1931. Prior to statehood, it housed federal government offices, the federal courthouse and a post office. It also housed the territorial legislature and many other territorial offices, including that of the governor. Today, it is still the home of the state legislature and the offices of the governor and lieutenant governor. Other executive branch offices have largely moved elsewhere, in Juneau or elsewhere in the state, in the ongoing battle between branches for space in the building, as well as the decades-long capital move issue. Recent discussion has been focused between relocating the seat of state government outside of Juneau and building a new capitol building in Juneau. Neither position has advanced very far. The Alaska Committee, a local community advocacy group, has led efforts to thus far keep the capital in Juneau.

</doc>
<doc id="18637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18637" title="Phoenix, Arizona">
Phoenix, Arizona

Phoenix is the capital city of the U.S. state of Arizona. It is the largest city in that state. The city is the county seat of Maricopa County. It is the largest capital city in the United States. The city is along the normally dry Salt River. It became a city on February 25 1881. People who live in Phoenix are known as Phoenicians.
Phoenix had about 1,475,834 people in 2005. It was the sixth largest city in the United States in the 2000 census. Phoenix is a very large city. It has an area of 515 square miles. This makes it the 10th largest city by area. As of 2006, the Phoenix Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) was the 13th-largest in the United States, with an estimated 4,039,182 people.
As early as 700 AD, the Hohokam people lived in the land that would become Phoenix. The Hohokam created about 135 miles (217 km) of irrigation canals. This let them grow things on the land.
It is believed that between AD 1300 and AD 1450 drought and floods caused the Hohokam to no longer live in the area. Spanish and Mexican explorers knew of the area but they did not go as far north as the Salt River Valley.
In 1867, Jack Swilling of Wickenburg, Arizona came to the area. He saw that the land was good for farming. The only problems he saw were a lack of rain and good irrigation. Swilling corrected the problem by having a series of canals built. A small community was created about four miles (6 km) east of the where the city is today.
The farming community was named Swilling's Mill. The name was later changed to Helling Mill, Mill City, and East Phoenix. Swilling was a Confederate soldier during the Civil War. He wanted to name the city "Stonewall," after Gen. Stonewall Jackson. Other people had other ideas for names. Finally, Lord Darrell Duppa suggested the name "Phoenix". The name is the same as the mythological fire bird which is born again from its own ash after it dies. It was a good name for a city born from a former civilization.
On February 25 1881, Phoenix became an incorporated city. At that time it had about 2,500 people. Phoenix held its first city election on May 3 1881. Judge John T. Alsap defeated James D. Monihon, 127 to 107, to become the city's first mayor. In early 1888, the city offices were moved into the new City Hall.
The coming of the railroad in the 1880s was the first of several important events changed the economy of Phoenix. Phoenix became a trade center. In response, the Phoenix Chamber of Commerce was created on November 4 1888.
Phoenix is at 33°26'54" North, 112°4'26" West (33.448457°, -112.073844°) in the Salt River Valley, or "Valley of the Sun", in central Arizona. It is at a mean elevation of 1,117 feet (340 m), in the northern reaches of the Sonoran Desert.
Other than the mountains in and around the city, the topography of Phoenix is mostly flat. This allows the city's main streets to run on a precise with wide, open-spaced roadways.
The Salt River runs westward through the city of Phoenix. The riverbed is often dry or just a trickle due to large irrigation usage. The river is full after infrequent rainstorms or when more water is released from upstream dams. The city of Tempe has built two inflatable dams in the Salt River bed to create a year-round recreational lake, called Tempe Town Lake. The dams are deflated to allow the river to flow unimpeded during releases. Lake Pleasant Regional Park is in Northwest Phoenix in the suburb of Peoria, Arizona.
As with most of Arizona, Phoenix does not observe daylight saving time. In 1973, Gov. Jack Williams argued to Congress that energy use would increase in the evening. Refrigeration units were not used as often in the morning on standard time. He went on to say that energy use would rise "because there would be more lights on in the early morning." He was also concerned about children going to school in the dark, which indeed they were. Navajo Nation lands in Northeastern Arizona observe daylight saving time in conjunction with the rest of their tribal lands in other states.
Phoenix has an arid climate, with very hot summers and temperate winters. The average summer high temperature is among the hottest of any populated area in the United States and approaches those of cities such as Riyadh and Baghdad. The temperature reaches or exceeds 100°F (38°C) on an average of 110 days during the year, including most days from late May through early September, and highs top 110 °F (43 °C) an average of 18 days during the year. On June 26, 1990, the temperature reached an all-time recorded high of 122 °F (50 °C).
On average, Phoenix has only 5 days per year where the temperature drops to or below freezing. Frequently, outlying areas of Phoenix see frost, but the airport does not. The earliest frost on record occurred on November 3, 1946, and the latest occurred on April 4, 1945. The all-time lowest recorded temperature in Phoenix was 16 °F (-8.8 °C) on January 7, 1913.
Since 1986, the city of Phoenix has been divided into urban villages, many of which are based upon historically significant neighborhoods and communities. Each village has a planning committee. This committee is appointed directly by the city council. According to the village planning handbook issued by the city, the purpose of the village planning committees is to work with the city's planning commission to ensure a balance of housing and employment in each village. The committees also concentrate on development at identified village cores, and to promote the unique character and identity of the villages.
There are 15 urban villages in the city at this time: Ahwatukee Foothills, Alhambra, Camelback East, Central City, Deer Valley, Desert View, Encanto, Estrella, Laveen, Maryvale, North Gateway, North Mountain, Paradise Valley (not to be confused with the town of Paradise Valley), South Mountain and Rio Vista. Rio Vista was created as New Village in 2004 and is currently very sparsely populated, with no large amount of development expected in the near future.
Commonly referred-to Phoenix regions and districts include Downtown, Midtown, West Phoenix, North Phoenix, South Phoenix, Biltmore Area, Arcadia, Sunnyslope, Ahwatukee.
The early economy of Phoenix was mostly agricultural. It was mostly dependent on cotton and citrus farming. In the last twenty years, the economy has changed as quickly as the number of people has grown. As the state capital of Arizona, many residents in the area are employed by the government. Arizona State University is there. Many high-tech and telecommunications companies have also recently moved to the area. Due to the warm climate in winter, Phoenix benefits greatly from seasonal tourism and recreation, and the golf industry.
Phoenix is currently home to several Fortune 1000 companies. Companies in Phoenix include waste management company Allied Waste, electronics corporation Avnet, Apollo Group (which operates the University of Phoenix), mining company Freeport-McMoRan (recently merged with Phoenix based Phelps Dodge), retailer PetSmart, development company Tempo Creative, energy supplier Pinnacle West and retailer CSK Auto. Honeywell's Aerospace division is headquartered in Phoenix, and the valley hosts many of their avionics and mechanical facilities. Intel has one of their largest sites here, employing about 10,000 employees and 3 chip manufacturing fabs, including the $3 billion state-of-the-art 300 mm and 45 nm Fab 32. American Express hosts their financial transactions, customer information, and their entire website in Phoenix. The city is also home to the headquarters of U-HAUL International, a rental company and moving supply store, as well Best Western, a hotel chain. Mesa Air Group, a regional airline group, is headquartered in Phoenix.
The military has a significant presence in Phoenix with Luke Air Force Base in the western suburbs. At its height, in the 1940s, the Phoenix area had three military bases: Luke Field (still in use), Falcon Field, and Williams Air Force Base (now Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport), with many other air fields throughout the region.
As the capital of Arizona, Phoenix houses the state legislature. In 1913, the commission form of government was adopted. The city of Phoenix is served by a city council. The city council is made up of a mayor and eight city council members. The mayor is elected in a citywide vote to a four-year term. Phoenix City Council members are elected to four-year terms by voters in each of the eight districts.
The current mayor of Phoenix is Phil Gordon, who was elected to a four-year term in 2003. He was again re-elected to another four-year term in 2007. The mayor and city council members have equal voting power to govern the city.
Phoenix operates under a council-manager form of government, with a strong city manager. The city manage supervises all city departments and executing policies adopted by the Council.
The United States Postal Service operates post offices throughout Phoenix. The main Phoenix Post Office is at 4949 East Van Buren Street.
As of February 9, 2009, Phoenix offers a domestic partnership registry open to opposite- and same-sex couples with no resident requirements for registrants.
By the 1970s there was rising crime and a decline in business within the downtown core. The city's crime rates in many categories have improved since that time, but still are higher than state and national averages. The crime rate in Phoenix has gone down through the years. However, recent kidnappings and human trafficking due to the Mexican drug trade have brought negative attention to the city.
Car theft has been a problem in Phoenix. In 2001, Phoenix was number one for theft rate with 35,161 total thefts, giving a rate of 1,081.25 per 100,000. However, in 2003, Phoenix dropped to second for with 1,253.71 per 100,000, although it was first for total car thefts with 40,769.

</doc>
<doc id="18638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18638" title="Little Rock, Arkansas">
Little Rock, Arkansas

Little Rock is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Arkansas.

</doc>
<doc id="18639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18639" title="Hartford, Connecticut">
Hartford, Connecticut

Hartford is the capital city of the U.S. state of Connecticut. It is only 24 miles from Springfield, Massachusetts. Hartford has the third most people in the state behind Bridgeport and New Haven. It is an important center of Insurance. Airline service is provided from Bradley International Airport. 
Hartford has an American Hockey League team called the Hartford Wolf Pack, a rugby team called the Hartford Wanderers and a United Football League team called the Hartford Colonials. Hartford also used to have a National Hockey League team called the Hartford Whalers that played in the NHL from 1979 to 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="18640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18640" title="Dover, Delaware">
Dover, Delaware

Dover is the capital city of the U.S. state of Delaware. It is the county seat of Kent County, which is in the middle of the state. Dover had 36,047 people in 2010.
William Penn founded Dover as the court town for newly established Kent County in 1683. Penn was the proprietor of the territory generally known as the "Lower Counties on the Delaware." In 1717, a special commission of the Delaware General Assembly laid out the city. The capital of the state of Delaware was moved here from Newcastle in 1777 because of its central location and relative safety from British raiders on the Delaware River. Because of an act passed in October 1779, the assembly elected to meet at any place in the state they saw fit, meeting successively in Wilmington, Lewes, Dover, Newcastle, and Lewes again, until the capital moved to Dover permanently in October 1781. The city's central square, known as The Green, was the location of many rallies, troop reviews, and other patriotic events. Today, The Green remains the heart of Dover's historic district and is the location of the Delaware Supreme Court and the Kent County Courthouse.
Dover was most famously the home of Caesar Rodney, the popular wartime leader of Delaware during the American Revolution.
Dover and Kent County were deeply divided over the issue of slavery, and the city was a "stop" on the Underground Railroad. It was also home to a large Quaker community that encouraged a sustained emancipation effort in the early nineteenth century. There were very few slaves in the area, but a majority of people wanted to keep slavery legal until the Civil War.
The main north–south highway through Dover is U.S. Route 13, which runs through the main commercial strip of Dover on the multi-lane, divided Dupont Highway. An alternate route of U.S. Route 13, U.S. Route 13 Alternate, passes through downtown Dover on Governors Avenue. The Delaware Route 1 turnpike, which provides the main route to Wilmington and the Delaware beaches, passes to the east of Dover. It ends near the Dover Air Force Base and DE 1 continues south on Bay Road. U.S. Route 113 formerly ran along Bay Road from Milford to US 13 near the State Capitol Complex, however it was decommissioned in 2004 to avoid the concurrency with DE 1 between the Dover Air Force Base and Milford. Delaware Route 8 is the main east–west route through Dover, passing through downtown on Division Street and West Dover on Forrest Avenue. It continues west toward Maryland to provide access to the Chesapeake Bay Bridge. Dover is one of only four state capitals not served by an interstate highway.
Dover Air Force Base is inside the southeast corporate limits of Dover, however the closest sizable civilian airport to Dover is the New Castle Airport in New Castle. The closest airports with commercial air service to Dover include the Wicomico Regional Airport in Salisbury, Maryland, the Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport in Baltimore, Maryland, and the Philadelphia International Airport in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Dover is on a former Pennsylvania Railroad line, which is now served by Norfolk Southern. At one time Dover had a daily Amtrak passenger service; however, the line now is just used for local freight. The closest passenger rail station is the Amtrak station in Wilmington.
DART First State provides weekday local bus service throughout Dover, speading from the Water Street Transfer Center in downtown. They also provide inter-county service to Wilmington and Georgetown and seasonal service to Rehoboth Beach.
Greyhound Lines are provided as inter-city bus transportation.
Dover has Delaware State University, a land-grant university and Delaware's only historically black university, and Wesley College. It is also home to the Terry Campus of the Delaware Technical & Community College and that college's administrative offices. Dover also has satellite locations of the University of Delaware and Wilmington University.
Three public high schools serve Dover residents. Caesar Rodney High School, in the Caesar Rodney School District (just outside the city in Camden); Dover High School, in the Capital School District; and Polytech High School, in the Polytech School District (in Woodside).
The Dover Air Force Base Middle School is on the grounds of the Dover Air Force Base. This school is unusual in that it is run by the Caesar Rodney School District and not the Department of Defense.

</doc>
<doc id="18641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18641" title="Boise, Idaho">
Boise, Idaho

Boise is the capital city of the U.S. state of Idaho. It is also the county seat of Ada County.
Although different people believe different stories about the origin of the name, it is generally accepted that the name "Boise" originates from the French word "boisée" which means "wooded".

</doc>
<doc id="18642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18642" title="Springfield, Illinois">
Springfield, Illinois

Springfield is the capital city of the U.S. state of Illinois. It is close to the center of the state. In the 2000 census, Springfield had more than 110,000 people living in it.
The state Capitol, in the middle of Springfield, is where the General Assembly (the state's legislature) meets and where the governor's office is. The Capitol is a big building with a dome that can be seen from many miles away. Springfield also has an old capitol, which is now a historic site.
Springfield was the home of Abraham Lincoln before he was elected president in 1860. Lincoln was a lawyer and practiced law many places in Illinois. His office is near the old capitol. When he died, his body was brought back to Springfield. His home, his law office, his tomb are all open to the public. Springfield also has a new building with a museum and library dedicated to him and his presidency.
Springfield has two Interstate highways: I-55 and I-72. I-55 runs from Chicago to Springfield and then through St. Louis, Missouri. Springfield also has many smaller roads to other cities.

</doc>
<doc id="18643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18643" title="Indianapolis">
Indianapolis

Indianapolis is the capital city and largest city in the state of Indiana, in the United States. In the 2000 census, it had more than 790,000 people living in it, making it one of the 15 largest cities in the country. It is the home of the Indianapolis Colts football team and the Indiana Pacers basketball team. Each May, the city hosts the "Indianapolis 500" car race.

</doc>
<doc id="18644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18644" title="Des Moines, Iowa">
Des Moines, Iowa

Des Moines is the capital city of U.S. state of Iowa.
Des Moines was started in 1843 where the Raccoon River and Des Moines River meet. Des Moines became the capital of Iowa in 1857.
Today, Des Moines is the largest city in Iowa with a population of 194,163 as of 2005. 
Des Moines has many insurance companies in the city. It is also the location of the Iowa State Fair that happens every year.
The band Slipknot is from Des Moines.
Men's roller derby team Your Mom Men's Roller Derby is based out of Des Moines.

</doc>
<doc id="18645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18645" title="Topeka, Kansas">
Topeka, Kansas

Topeka () is the capital city of the U.S. state of Kansas. Topeka is the county seat of Shawnee County, and is in the northeast part of the state. Topeka had 127,473 people at the 2010 census.
Topeka was established in 1854 when nine men founded the Topeka Town Association. At an election in November 1861, the people of Kansas chose Topeka as the permanent capital of the state.
The name "Topeka" is composed of three words from the Kaw, Omaha, and Iowa Native American tribes. The first, "to", means "potato". The second, "pe" (short for "pekae") is an adjective meaning "good". The third, "okae", means "to dig". Thus, the name "Topeka" means "a good place to dig potatoes". The name was chosen because "[i]t was a novel name of Indian origin, euphonious [pleasing] of sound and simple".
Charles Sheldon and Charles Fox Parham, both important people in the history of American Christianity, were preachers in Topeka. Many historians believe that the modern Pentecostalism movement started in Monroe's church in 1901. Sheldon was a preacher in Topeka around the same time, who is famous for coming up with the phrase "What would Jesus do?"
"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka" was a lawsuit that went before the United States Supreme Court in 1954. Several families sued the public school board in Topeka for the right for black students to go to the same schools as white students. The Supreme Court decided that school districts could not make students go to different schools because of their race. Today, the government has a museum in Topeka about "Brown v. Board of Education" and civil rights for African-Americans.

</doc>
<doc id="18647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18647" title="Baton Rouge, Louisiana">
Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Baton Rouge is the capital and second-largest city of the U.S. state of Louisiana. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).
On July 17, 2016, three police officers were shot dead.

</doc>
<doc id="18648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18648" title="Augusta, Maine">
Augusta, Maine

Augusta is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maine. 18,560 people live in Augusta. 

</doc>
<doc id="18649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18649" title="Saint Paul, Minnesota">
Saint Paul, Minnesota

Saint Paul is the capital city of the U.S. state of Minnesota. It is across the Mississippi River from Minneapolis. When people talk about both cities, they call them the Twin Cities.

</doc>
<doc id="18650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18650" title="Jackson, Mississippi">
Jackson, Mississippi

Jackson is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Mississippi.

</doc>
<doc id="18651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18651" title="Jefferson City, Missouri">
Jefferson City, Missouri

Jefferson City is the capital of the U.S. state of Missouri. It is also county seat of Cole County. (The Jefferson City metropolitan area includes all of Callaway and Cole counties.) As of the 2010 census, the population was 43,079. Jefferson City was named after Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States.
Jefferson City is on the northern edge of the Ozark Plateau on the southern side of the Missouri River near the geographic center of the state, in a region known as Mid-Missouri. It is at the western edge of the Missouri Rhineland, one of the major wine-producing regions of the Midwest.
In pre-Columbian times, this region was home of an ancient people known only as the Mound Builders. By the time European settlers began arriving, the Mound Builders had vanished into history. The contemporary indigenous peoples were called the Osage Indians. When the Missouri Territory was organized in 1812, St. Louis was the seat of government. St. Charles next served as the capital.
The new state legislature decided to build a new capital city in the middle of the state in 1821. They named it after Thomas Jefferson, who was still alive. A village was already there called Lohman's Landing. For years the village was little more than a trading post located in the wilderness about midway between St. Louis and Kansas City. In 1826 the Missouri legislature first met here and in 1839 the settlement was incorporated as a city.
Jefferson City was selected as the site for a state prison and, in 1836, the Missouri State Penitentiary was opened. The prison was home to a number of infamous Americans, including: former heavyweight champion Sonny Liston, assassin James Earl Ray, and bank robber Charles "Pretty Boy" Floyd.
During the American Civil War, Jefferson City was occupied by Union troops. Many of the people in the state supported the Union, although Missouri's Little Dixie section along the river in western counties was strongly Confederate.
German immigrants created vineyards in small towns on either side of the Missouri River, especially on the north from Jefferson City east to Marthasville outside St. Louis. Known as the Missouri Rhineland for its vineyards, first established by German immigrants in the mid-19th century, this area has become a part of the agricultural and tourist economy.
Jefferson City is located at (38.572954, -92.189283). According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which, is land and (3.61%) is water.
Jefferson City is served by the Jefferson City Public School District, which operates Jefferson City High School, Simonsen 9th Grade Center, Lewis and Clark Middle School and Thomas Jefferson Middle School, and eleven elementary schools. The district is currently considering building a second high school. There are 4 private elementary schools: St. Joseph's Cathedral, St. Peter, Immaculate Conception, and Trinity Lutheran.Calvary Lutheran, Helias Catholic, and Lighthouse Preparatory Academy are Jefferson City's private high schools.
Lincoln University is a public historically black university with open enrollment and certificate, associate, bachelor, and graduate programs. Columbia College, Linn State Technical College, William Woods University, Metro Business College, and Merrell University also have locations in Jefferson City with varying degree levels and options.
Jefftran operates a public bus system year-round. Jefferson City is one of four state capitols in United States that are not served by an interstate highway. Only four other state capitols nationwide share in this oddity. Interstate 70 passes by the city to the north, in Columbia. U.S. Highways in the city include U.S. Route 50, U.S. Route 54, and U.S. Route 63. Also Route 179 and Route 94 run through the city, giving it four highways that intersect with I-70. Jefferson City is also home to an Amtrak station.

</doc>
<doc id="18652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18652" title="Helena, Montana">
Helena, Montana

Helena is the capital city of the U.S. state of Montana.

</doc>
<doc id="18653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18653" title="Carson City, Nevada">
Carson City, Nevada

Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada. At the 2010 United States Census, Carson City had a population of 55,274.
Settlers who lived present-day Carson City named the area "Washoe", after the Washoe Native Americans who lived there. John C. Frémont and his party of explorers were the first European Americans to visit the Carson City area in 1843. Frémont named a river flowing through the valley Carson River for Christopher "Kit" Carson, who served as a scout on Frémont's expedition.
When Nevada became a state in 1864 during the Civil War, Carson City was confirmed as Nevada's permanent capital. Abraham Curry, the founder of Carson City, reserved an area equivalent to four city blocks (10 acres or 4.04 ha) at the center of the town for the future state capitol building. When the Capitol building was built ten years later, it was located there. The fourth session of the state legislature met in the still-incomplete building at the beginning of 1871. Construction was completed by May 1, 1871.
There are three major highways in the city US Route 395, US Route 50 and Interstate 580.
Carson City's first bus system, called Jump Around Carson, opened in October 2005. There is almost no ground public transportation to other cities. Passenger train service stopped in 1948. Greyhound Lines stopped bus service there in 2006. Amtrak stopped their bus to Sacramento in 2008. Greyhound and Amtrak have busses to Reno, Monday to Friday.
Carson Airport is in the northern part of the city. Reno-Tahoe International Airport, away, has domestic commercial flights.

</doc>
<doc id="18654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18654" title="Austin, Texas">
Austin, Texas

Austin is the capital city of the U.S. state of Texas. The University of Texas at Austin is there.
Austin is frequently called the "Live Music Capital of the World."
Austin was first called Waterloo in 1835. In 1839, it was chosen to be the capital city of The Republic of Texas and named for Stephen F. Austin. The University of Texas at Austin was founded in 1883.
Austin has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification) with hot summers and mild winters. The city rarely gets snow at all and frosts are infrequent.
The current mayor of Austin is Steve Adler (D).
Austin also has a city council with seven members.
Many businesses have their main offices in or near Austin, including AMD, Dell, Freescale Semiconductors, PayPal, and Whole Foods.
-6th Street (Known also as Pecan Street): Known for various bars (incl. old fashioned saloons, dive bars, gay bars, etc.), most of these bars hosting live music.
-Mount Bonnell: The highest point in Austin, TX. Come here for romantic moments and beautiful nature in front of scenic vistas.
-Capitol Building: Bigger than the U.S. Capitol.
-Congress Ave.: One of the main streets of the city. Famous for the bat bridge which hosts millions of Mexican Free-Tail Bats. South Congress Ave. (Aka SOCO) is a famous tourist district with unique and odd shops, trailer park eats, and more live music.
Formula One has made an agreement with the city of Austin to host the Formula 1 United States Grand Prix. A new racetrack will be built to host the race. The last United States Grand Prix was in 2007 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

</doc>
<doc id="18655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18655" title="Montpelier, Vermont">
Montpelier, Vermont

Montpelier 
is a city in the U.S. state of Vermont that serves as the state capital. It is also the shire town (county seat) of Washington County. As the capital of Vermont, Montpelier is the site of the Vermont State House, seat of the legislative branch of Vermont government. The Vermont State House has a golden dome. The population was 7,855 at the 2010 census. By population, it is the smallest state capital in the United States. The Vermont History Museum and Vermont College of Fine Arts are in Montpelier.
The state legislature made Montpelier the state capital in 1805. 

</doc>
<doc id="18656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18656" title="Concord, New Hampshire">
Concord, New Hampshire

Concord is the capital city of the U.S. state of New Hampshire. The land which Concord now occupies along the banks of the Merrimack River was settled thousands of years ago by Native Americans. The broad sweeps of the river valley, good soil for farming, and easy transportation on the Merrimack made the site of Concord equally inviting to English-speaking settlers in the eighteenth century. Settled by immigrants from Massachusetts in 1725, the community grew in prominence during the eighteenth century. Some of Concord's earliest houses remain today at the north end of Main Street. In the years following the American Revolution, the City's central location made it a logical choice for the state capital, and in 1808 Concord was named the official seat of state government. Today the 1819 State House is the oldest state capitol in which the legislative branches meet in their original chambers.
This area's first settlement in 1659 was named Penacook, for the Indian name Pannukog, meaning crooked place or bend in the river. The first land grant was in 1725, and the town was incorporated as Rumford in 1733. The name was changed to Concord in 1765 upon resolution of a bitter boundary dispute between Rumford and Bow. Its central location was the logical choice for state capital, and Concord was so named in 1808. The State House, built in 1818 and first occupied in 1819, is the oldest in continuous use in the country. In 1853, the State granted Concord a city charter. It was in Concord that the Abbotts built the famous Concord Coach, modeled after the coronation coach for King George III. Granite quarrying has been another major industry, and Concord's quarries supplied granite for the US Library of Congress. Concord was home to Franklin Pierce, 14th President of the United States, following his presidency.
Concord had the tenth largest numeric change in population, totaling 12,777 over 50 years, from 27,988 in 1950 to 40,765 in 2000. The largest decennial percent change was a 22 percent increase between 1980 and 1990; all other decades increased by ten percent or less. The 2005 Census estimate for Concord was 42,336 residents, which ranked third among New Hampshire's incorporated cities and towns.

</doc>
<doc id="18657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18657" title="Trenton, New Jersey">
Trenton, New Jersey

Trenton is the capital city of the U.S. state of New Jersey. It is the county seat of Mercer County. Trenton is in the middle part of New Jersey, along the Delaware River.

</doc>
<doc id="18658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18658" title="Santa Fe, New Mexico">
Santa Fe, New Mexico

Santa Fe (; Tewa: Ogha Po'oge, ) is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico. It is the fourth-largest city in the state. It is the seat of Santa Fe County. Santa Fe (literally 'holy faith' in Spanish) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census. It is the principal city of the Santa Fe, New Mexico Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and is part of the larger Santa Fe-Española Combined Statistical Area. The city's full name when founded was "La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís" ("The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi").
In 1912, New Mexico became the United States of America's 47th state, with Santa Fe as its capital.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 37.4 square miles (96.9 km), of which, 37.3 square miles (96.7 km) of it is land and 0.1 square miles (0.2 km) of it (0.21%) is water.
Santa Fe is at 7,199 feet (2134 m) above sea level, making it the highest state capital in the United States.
Santa Fe has many world-class museums. Many are around the historic downtown Plaza or close by:
Others are on Museum Hill:

</doc>
<doc id="18659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18659" title="Albany, New York">
Albany, New York

Albany ( ) is the capital city of the U.S. state of New York, the seat of Albany County, and the central city of New York's Capital District. Roughly north of New York City, Albany sits on the west bank of the Hudson River, about south of its confluence with the Mohawk River.
Prior to the recession of the 1990s, Albany was home to two Fortune 500 companies: KeyBank and Fleet Bank. Both banks have since moved or merged with other banks.
It is home to the AHL ice hockey team the "Albany Devils".
Albany is served by the Albany International Airport.
The Empire State Plaza has many state agency office buildings. It fills almost any view of Albany. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller and architect Wallace Harrison led its construction between 1965 and 1978. The complex is a big example of late American modernism in architecture. It remains a controversial building project both for displacing city residents and for its architectural style. The most recognizable part of the complex is the Erastus Corning Tower. The tower is the tallest building in New York outside of New York City. The 19th-century New York State Capitol at the opposite (north) end of the plaza is the seat of the New York State Legislature and the home of the Governor of New York, currently Andrew Cuomo.
Albany's initial architecture incorporated many Dutch influences, followed soon after by those of the English. The Quackenbush House, a Dutch Colonial brick mansion, was built c. 1736; Schuyler Mansion, a Georgian-style mansion, was built in 1765; and the oldest building currently standing in Albany is the 1728 Van Ostrande-Radliff House at 48 Hudson Avenue. Albany's housing varies greatly, with mostly row houses in the older sections of town, closer to the river. Housing type quickly changes as one travels westward, beginning with two-family homes of the late 19th century, and one-family homes built after World War II in the western end of the city.
Albany City Hall was opened in 1883. The New York State Capitol was opened in 1899 (after 32 years of construction) at a cost of $25 million, making it the most expensive government building at the time. Albany's Union Station, a major Beaux-Arts design, was under construction at the same time; it opened in 1900. In 1912, the Beaux-Arts styled New York State Department of Education Building opened on Washington Avenue near the Capitol. It has a classical exterior, which features a block-long white marble colonnade. The 1920s brought the Art Deco movement, which is illustrated by the Home Savings Bank Building (1927) on North Pearl Street and the Alfred E. Smith Building (1930) on South Swan Street, two of Albany's tallest high-rises.
Architecture from the 1960s and 1970s is well represented in the city, especially at the W. Averell Harriman State Office Building Campus (1950s and 1960s) and on the uptown campus of the SUNY Albany college (1962–1971). The state office campus was planned in the 1950s by governor W. Averell Harriman to offer more parking and easier access for state employees. The uptown SUNY campus was built in the 1960s under Governor Rockefeller on the site of the city-owned Albany Country Club. Straying from the popular open campus layout, noted American architect Edward Durell Stone designed the SUNY Albany campus from 1954-1956 with a centralized building layout with administrative and classroom buildings at center surrounded by four student housing towers. The design called for much use of concrete and glass, and the style has slender, round-topped columns and pillars reminiscent of those at Lincoln Center in New York City.
Government
Economy
Culture
Travel

</doc>
<doc id="18660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18660" title="Raleigh, North Carolina">
Raleigh, North Carolina

Raleigh (pronounced , ) is the capital and the second largest city in the state of North Carolina as well as the county seat of Wake County. Raleigh is known as the "City of Oaks" for its many oak trees. The area is also nicknamed "The Triangle".
Raleigh is part of the Research Triangle area, together with Durham and Chapel Hill. The "Triangle" nickname began after the 1959 plan and construction of the Research Triangle Park, in Durham and Wake Counties. It is in the middle of the three cities and their universities. 
The Research Triangle area makes up the U.S. Census Bureau's Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Combined Statistical Area (CSA). It had an estimated population of 2,037,430 in 2013. 
Raleigh was started in 1770. In 1788, it became North Carolina's state capital. The first state fair happened in 1853 and has kept on happening. Raleigh was not hurt by the Civil War. It did not grow much after the Civil War.
In the early 1900s, Raleigh had streetcars, but they got rid of them later. Raleigh got its first TV station in 1956. In 1959, the Research Triangle Park was built. This caused people to move to the area for the jobs. In the late 1900s, Interstate 40 and Interstate 440 (freeways)were built, helping traffic. Since the late 1900s, Raleigh has grown quickly.
Raleigh is in north-central North Carolina. It is in a hilly area.
Raleigh has a mild climate. The summers are hot, with an average high of about 90°F (32°C). The winters are cool, with an average high of about 50°F (10°C). It snows about twice a year with a total of six inches (15 centimeters). Raleigh also gets around 45 inches of rain.
Raleigh has a lot of good transportation. Some freeways are Interstate 40, I-440, and I-540. Some highways are U.S. Route 1, 64, and 70, and N.C. highway 50. Raleigh also has a Amtrak station and a big airport.
Raleigh has a lot of museums. North Carolina State University is also in Raleigh.
Raleigh is pretty rich, but there are some poor areas. The region also has a lot of suburban developments, but there are some crowded areas.

</doc>
<doc id="18661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18661" title="Bismarck, North Dakota">
Bismarck, North Dakota

Bismarck is the capital city of the U.S. state of North Dakota. It is also the county seat of Burleigh County. As of the census held in the year 2010, its population was 61,272. The population of its metropolitan area was 108,779.
Bismarck was founded in 1872. It has been North Dakota's capital since it gained statehood in 1889.
Bismarck is situated on the east bank of the Missouri River, directly across the river from Mandan. The two cities make up the core of the Bismarck-Mandan Metropolitan Statistical Area.
The North Dakota State Capitol, the tallest building in the state, towers over the central part of Bismarck. The state government employs more than 4,000 in the city. As a hub of retail and health care, Bismarck is the economic center of a large portion of south-central North Dakota and north-central South Dakota.

</doc>
<doc id="18662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18662" title="Columbus, Ohio">
Columbus, Ohio

Columbus is the capital city and largest city of the U.S. state of Ohio. It is in the middle of the state. The Ohio State Buckeyes and Columbus Blue Jackets play there. In 2010 there were 787,033 people.
Columbus is the third largest city in the American Midwest, and the fifteenth largest city in the United States of America. It is the county seat of Franklin County. The city has expanded and annexed portions of adjoining Delaware County and Fairfield County. It is named for explorer Christopher Columbus. The city was founded in 1812 at the confluence of the Scioto and Olentangy rivers. It became Ohio's state capital in 1816. The city has a diverse economy based on education, government, insurance, banking, fashion, defense, aviation, food, clothes, logistics, steel, energy, medical research, health care, hospitality, retail, and technology.
Columbus has many technology companies. It has the world's largest private research and development foundation, the Battelle Memorial Institute; CAS, or Chemical Abstracts Service, the world's largest clearinghouse of chemical information; NetJets, the world's largest fractional ownership jet aircraft fleet; and The Ohio State University, the nation's largest campus.
In 2008, "MarketWatch" named Columbus as the 7th best place to do business in the nation. In 2011, the city had five corporations named to the U.S. Fortune 500 list including Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, American Electric Power, Limited Brands, Momentive Specialty Chemicals, and Big Lots. Major foreign corporations operating or with divisions in the city include Germany-based Siemens and Roxane Laboratories, Finland-based Vaisala, Tomasco Mulciber Inc., and A Y Manufacturing, as well as Switzerland-based ABB Group and Mettler Toledo.

</doc>
<doc id="18663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18663" title="Oklahoma City">
Oklahoma City

Oklahoma City is the capital city of the U.S. state of Oklahoma, and the largest city in the state. As of 2006, the population of the city was about 537,734. The Oklahoma City bombing happened in Oklahoma in 1995. Oklahoma City has an NBA team called the Oklahoma City Thunder. It is the county seat of Oklahoma County.

</doc>
<doc id="18671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18671" title="Casablanca (disambiguation)">
Casablanca (disambiguation)

Casablanca can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18674" title="Wichita, Kansas">
Wichita, Kansas

Wichita is the largest city in the U.S. State of Kansas.
Wichita is the 49th largest city in the United States with about 354,865 people in the year 2005. It is in Sedgwick County, which is in the south-central part of the state.
Many parts of airplanes are made in Wichita. Also, Wichita State University is in the city.
Official sites
More information

</doc>
<doc id="18675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18675" title="Casablanca (movie)">
Casablanca (movie)

Casablanca is a 1942 American movie set in the Moroccan city of Casablanca during World War II. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman and Paul Henreid in lead roles.
From the time of its debut, it has been called one of the greatest movies ever made. Critics have loved it for the romantic performances of Bogart and Bergman.

</doc>
<doc id="18680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18680" title="The Godfather">
The Godfather

The Godfather is a 1972 American movie directed by Francis Ford Coppola. It is based on Mario Puzo's novel of the same name, and stars Marlon Brando and Al Pacino. The story of the movie takes place from 1945 to 1955.
It has been considered one of the best movies about the Mafia. In addition, many have called it the best movie of all time; it also appears on many such lists, including AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies (where it was ranked at number three).
"The Godfather" won three Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Actor (for Marlon Brando, who refused the award), and Best Adapted Screenplay. 
A sequel, "The Godfather Part II", was released in 1974 and won another Best Picture Oscar. It was the only sequel to do so until 2003's "". The third movie in the Godfather trilogy, "The Godfather Part III", came out in 1990. The critics thought it was not as good as the other two movies.

</doc>
<doc id="18688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18688" title="Category:1972 movies">
Category:1972 movies

This category lists the titles of movies that were originally released in the year 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="18690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18690" title="Venus flytrap">
Venus flytrap

The Venus flytrap, "Dionaea muscipula", is a carnivorous plant (a plant that feeds on small animals, such as insects). Carnivorous plants grow in soil that has little nitrogen. They get nitrogen from the insects they trap.
The Venus flytrap is one of a very small group of plants that can snap shut very quickly. When an insect or spider crawls along the leaves and touches a hair, the trap closes "only if a different hair is touched within twenty seconds of the first touch". The two-touch trigger means that little energy is wasted on things that are not food.
The Venus flytrap is a small plant, with small leaves. Its clam-shaped leaves look rather like flowers, and so they attract insects. When they are open, they are red and smell sweet. They have stiff hairs on each edge. Inside the leaves, there are very sensitive, tiny hairs which cause the leaves to snap shut when they are touched. Two hairs must be touched to make the leaves close. This makes it more likely that the thing that touched its hair is living.
The Venus flytrap feeds on insects, such as ants, beetles, woodlice, worms, flies, grasshoppers, and moths.
First it traps the insect inside its leaves, and then lets out a liquid that helps digest the trapped animal. The plant consumes the insect and takes the nitrogen from the insect's body.
The Venus flytrap makes sugar by photosynthesis. The insects give it nutrients which it cannot get from the waterlogged soil. With the nutrients it can build up enzymes and other molecules which need trace elements as well as sugars and amino acids.
Venus flytraps were first discovered in North America on the coast of North and South Carolina, where it grows wild near the Cape Fear River. However, people anywhere can grow Venus flytraps in pots. Venus flytraps in pots need water and soil without calcium or nitrogen in it. It is named after the Roman goddess of love, Venus.

</doc>
<doc id="18701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18701" title="Prime number">
Prime number

A composite number is a natural number of a particular kind. Any natural number is equal to 1 times itself. If the number is equal to any other numbers multiplied, then the number is a composite number. The smallest composite number is 4, because 2 x 2 = 4. 1 is not a composite number. Every other number is a prime number. The prime numbers are the numbers other than 1 which are not equal to "m" x "n" (except 1 x itself). The smallest prime number is 2. There is no largest prime number. The next smallest prime numbers are 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, and so on.
The way that the prime numbers occur is a difficult problem for mathematicians. When a number is larger, it is more difficult to know if it is a prime number. One of the answers is the Prime number theorem. One of the unsolved problems is Goldbach's conjecture.
There is a simple method to find a list of prime numbers. Eratosthenes created it. It has the name Sieve of Eratosthenes. It catches numbers that are not prime (like a sieve) and lets the prime numbers pass through.
The method is always the same:
As an example, if this is done up to the number 10, the numbers 2, 3, 5 and 7 etc. are prime numbers, and 4, 6, 8, 9 and 10 etc. are composite numbers.
This method or algorithm takes too long to find very large prime numbers. But it is less complicated than methods used for very large primes, like Fermat's primality test (a primality test is to test whether a number is prime or not) or the Miller-Rabin primality test.
Prime numbers are very important in mathematics & computer science. Some real-world uses are given below. Very long prime numbers are hard to solve. It is difficult to find their prime factors, so most of the time, numbers that are probably prime are used for encryption and secret codes.

</doc>
<doc id="18703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18703" title="Igloo">
Igloo

An igloo (or iglu) is a shelter (a place for people to stay warm and dry) made from blocks of snow placed on top of each other, often in the shape of a dome (like half of a hollow ball). They were used in winter as temporary shelters by hunters when they were away from their regular homes.
They were most often built in places where a lot of snow covers the land for weeks or months at a time, such as the far north of Canada and Greenland. Most igloos are built by native Inuit people (sometimes called "Eskimoes"). As they learned to build them better, sometimes people would build larger igloos that would last longer and hold more people, even for dancing.

</doc>
<doc id="18708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18708" title="Dust (disambiguation)">
Dust (disambiguation)

Dust is fine, solid particles of matter.
Dust may also mean:
For articles on how the word "dust" is used as a technical term in physics, astronomy, cosmology, and
environmental science, see:

</doc>
<doc id="18710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18710" title="The Phantom of the Opera">
The Phantom of the Opera

The Phantom of the Opera () is a French novel by Gaston Leroux. It was published in 1910. An English edition came out a year later.
The book was adapted to a musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber in 1986. The musical was made into a movie in 2004.
Movie versions include one starring Lon Chaney in 1925, one from 1943 with Claude Rains, another from 1962 with Herbert Lom, and "The Phantom of the Paradise" (1974). The story has been adapted to made for television movies several times.

</doc>
<doc id="18712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18712" title="Fleet, Hampshire">
Fleet, Hampshire

Fleet is a town in Hampshire, United Kingdom and tends to be a dormitory town serving London and Reading.
Fleet has one shopping center, and a music shop just off the High Street and many small, fun attractions.
There are a number of pubs there with some character, and even two small nightclubs. It has a lot of green, and is good for rambling but there is the danger of a field being an army firing range.
Its local business parks seem to be a focus for many CAD companies serving the local military in Fleet, Aldershot, and Farnborough. Notably there are AutoDesk and PTC.
There are also many good schools especially Heatherside Infant and Juniors and Court Moor!
It has its own train station on the London-Basingstoke line. It also has bus services running to and from local towns, including Reading. The local bus company did go bust a few times, notably at the same time as the major plague of train accidents and strikes in early 2002 - where combined with large snow deposits, made travel in or out of the town impossible or at least very unpleasant. Anyone who lived on the London-Basingstoke line will remember people being crammed into the guard-vans of the train after waiting 90 minutes, or being stuck between stations for what seemed like days.

</doc>
<doc id="18715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18715" title="Hentai">
Hentai

Hentai is a Japanese word that literally means "strange appearance", but also means "perverted". Hentai, because of this, is a word used by countries outside of Japan to show porn and sex-related anime, manga and video games. The word is not used to mean this in Japan. In Japan, terms such as "ecchi" are used.
The word hentai is sometimes used to apply to cartoon characters that are not anime characters. Hentai is the anime version of porn. There is on screen sex, often very graphic and very imaginative. Since hentai is anime, the performers are not bound by physical laws. Makers of hentai often use this in very creative ways. Some of the acts performed in hentai would be physically impossible. Some of the performers are often impossible themselves. Fairies, monsters, and even new and strange creatures are stars of hentai. Monsters and demons with tentacles are seen so often that “tentacle porn” is its own sub-category of hentai.
Most of the hentai (anime)-films in the late 1990s to the present day are based on Ero-Games, where the only actual goal is to date the girls in the game and have sex with one of them. The games feature various character-types, like a bookworm, a tough girl, a younger girl, and a tomboy. Ero-games can include highly taboo themes, such as (coprophilia or dismemberment and pedophilia) and sometimes slightly less taboo subjects, such as (incest, rape). Some examples of these kind of game-to-hentai-anime conversions are Immoral Sisters, Isaku, Pia Carrot, Five Card, Bible Black, Words Worth, Night Shift Nurses, and Milk Junkies.
Famous hentai films include:

</doc>
<doc id="18730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18730" title="Snowboarding">
Snowboarding

Snowboarding is a sport that is much like skiing. A person stands on a "snowboard" and rides down a mountain covered with snow. A snowboard is a flat board with bindings that hold your feet in place while gliding down the mountain. It is different from skiing because both feet are on one board - like surfing.
Some snowboarders like to ride over jumps and do tricks. 
The snowboard was born in the seventy's through the imagination of several different Americans. 
The original idea was born in 1965 through Sherman Poppen. He invented the ‘’snurfer ‘’, which was made of two skis fixed together, as a gift to his daughter. It soon became very popular, so he licensed it to the Brunswick Corporation who sold about a million over the next 10 years. 
In the mid 1970's Dimitrije Milovich created a snowboard inspired by the surfing board called the 'Winterstick'. Finally, in 1977 Jake Burton Carpenter helped by Tom Sims and Chuck Barfoot created the first snowboard model, which made them very rich.
During the eighty's, the sport became very popular. In 1982 the first National Snowboard race was held in Vermont at Suicide Six. The number of windsurfering and snowboarding stations grew very fast everywhere there was snow and mountains.
Snowboarding was first recommended to join the Olympic program in 1996 by the Olympic council in Atlanta. Two years later, some competitions like the Big slalom and the Half-pipe took place in The Olympic Nagano games.
Snowboarders must wear hot and good quality clothes against the cold temperature. They wear also some ski goggles to protect their eyes from reflection of the sun on the snow, against the snow and the wind that can be very hurtful. It is essential to have a good view during the ride. The board that they used has to be fitted by squares on all its length that allow snowboarders to practice this sport even if there is not a lot of snow. Also, the snowboard is equipped with binding to provide snowboarders solidity and stability. The security attach have to be firmly tied on the binding and clip on one of your boots adapted to this sport. Wearing a helmet is strongly recommended.
There are two possible positions on the board. First of all, there is the regular one. With this position, your right foot is placed in the back. The second one is called goofy where you have to put your left foot in the back. The choice between those two positions is personal to everyone. Contrary to what everybody can thinks, goofys are not necessary left-handed or regulars right-handed. In fact, seventy-five percent of the people are regulars. Because the board make a curve in the front and in the back, it can glide on the two sides. In addition, the board called twin-tips is perfectly symmetric, so it allows windsurfers to glide in switch (when the favorite foot is in the back) or in normal-foot (when the favorite foot is in the front).

</doc>
<doc id="18735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18735" title="Aquamarine">
Aquamarine

Aquamarine is a gemstone, named for its blue-green color, which looks like some shallow seas. It is a type of beryl. The color aquamarine is named for the gemstone.

</doc>
<doc id="18736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18736" title="Trinitrotoluene">
Trinitrotoluene

TNT (Trinitrotoluene) is an explosive similar to dynamite (based on nitroglycerin).
Sometimes TNT is used to mean dynamite, or dynamite is used to mean TNT, because they can both be used in similar ways. If a person has been involved in a crime using TNT, scientists track it down by testing the hair molecules or clothing molecules to see if TNT particles are found on clothing or hair. It stays on your hair EVEN if you clean the TNT particles in your hair! TNT Is a form of dynamite and very explosive if handled incorrectly. Caution should be taken when using TNT.

</doc>
<doc id="18744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18744" title="Spore">
Spore

Spores are the way fungi and some non-seed plants (ferns and mosses) reproduce. They are also made by bacteria for long-term survival. Some protozoa also make long-term survival spores.
The spores of seed plants are single cells that grow into a pollen grain or the gametophyte inside the ovule. The structure of seeds in higher plants is more complicated than spores. The main 'innovation' of seeds is their nutrition for the developing embryo, which spores do not have.
Fungi (for example, mushrooms) produce spores, which may be asexual or sexual. The asexual spores have inside them the genetic material to make a whole new organism identical to its parent. 
Conidia are asexual, non-motile spores of a fungus; they are also called mitospores due to the way they are generated through the cellular process of mitosis. They are haploid cells genetically identical to the haploid parent, can develop into a new organism if conditions are favorable, and serve in dispersal.
Asexual reproduction in Ascomycetes (the Phylum Ascomycota) is by the formation of conidia, which are borne on specialized stalks called conidiophores. The morphology of these specialized conidiophores is often distinctive of a specific species and can therefore be used in identification of the species.
Bacterial spores are extremely resistant. Spores of tetanus and anthrax, for example, can survive in the soil for many years. The origin of these spores was discovered in the 19th century, when a biologist noticed, under the microscope, a small, round, bright body inside bacterial cells. This survived even when the bacteria were boiled for five minutes. This killed the bacteria, but not the spores. They germinated when conditions were right.
Plants have alternation of generations. One of the generations is the sporophyte, which produces spores by meiosis, and the other is the gametophyte with produces gametes.

</doc>
<doc id="18746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18746" title="Radiohead">
Radiohead

Radiohead are an English rock band from Abingdon, Oxfordshire. The lead singer and lyrics writer of the band is Thom Yorke, who also plays guitar and piano. Thom is known for his high voiced singing style and the band is known for their different style of rock music.
The band has five members, and three of them play guitar. In their early years, Radiohead was known for their layered and heavy guitar sound. In later years, the band began using other instruments too, and creating more electronic sounds. The band still performs live and attracts large crowds of fans to sold-out concerts, even though they play many different styles of music.
Most bands from England are not successful outside their home country of the UK. But Radiohead is successful in the UK and also in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Australia, Israel, Japan and other parts of Asia. Radiohead does not sell as much as the biggest pop artists in the world, but they are recognized by fans and music critics. Lots of people and magazines have called their albums some of the best ever made. They have created nine album's so far, the most recent being, "A Moon Shaped Pool" (2016)
Radiohead started in 1985. The members of the band went to school together at Abingdon School, a boys' school in Abingdon, Oxfordshire. The band first called themselves "On a Friday". The band would usually rehearse on Friday in their school's music room. 
On A Friday signed a contract with EMI, a large record label, in 1991. They changed their name to "Radiohead". This name came from the song "Radio Head" on the album "True Stories" by Talking Heads. They released their first EP, called "Drill", in May 1992. It was not very popular. Radiohead started work on their first album. It was called "Pablo Honey" and it was recorded in 1992 in a studio in Oxford. They released their first single, "Creep", late in 1992. They released "Pablo Honey" in February 1993. The album did not become popular, but "Creep" did, and the band got a lot of fans because of it. At the time, Radiohead's style of music was not very popular, and people said it sounded like Nirvana, but was not as good. They said that other Britpop bands, like Suede, were better. "Creep" was played on the radio at a lot of colleges around the world, however. When Radiohead went on tour in the United States in early 1993, the music video for "Creep" was being played a lot on MTV.
Radiohead made an EP in 1994. This was called "My Iron Lung", and contained the title single, and seven songs known as B-sides (because they were not on a full length album). The main song, "My Iron Lung", was about the way fans had reacted to their song "Creep". The band was happy the song had been a hit, because otherwise they might not have been able to continue the band. But the band, especially Thom Yorke, were reluctant to be celebrities. They were already disturbed by the workings of the music industry. They felt they had no control over things. "Creep" was popular, so they felt under pressure to make more similar songs. They hated the way "Creep" was the only Radiohead song anyone listened to at their concerts, yet it was all that was keeping them popular and afloat in the record industry. The "iron lung" was a metaphor for such a "life support".
Their second normal album, "The Bends", came out in 1995. The song "My Iron Lung" was on it, along with 11 new ones. The band released four more songs as singles: "Fake Plastic Trees", "High and Dry", "Just" and "Street Spirit [Fade Out]". None of these songs were as popular as "Creep" around the world. Radiohead was now a one-hit wonder to many people in America. Songs from "The Bends" did not get played on the radio very much there. But the album became very popular in Radiohead's home of the UK. It also got excellent reviews from music critics, unlike the band's first album. Many said it was one of the best rock records in memory. The album was produced by John Leckie, a veteran at EMI's Abbey Road studios. As a young man Leckie had assisted on Pink Floyd albums in the 1970s.
The band's lineup was the same for "The Bends". Thom Yorke and Ed O'Brien played rhythm and auxiliary guitar; Thom sang and Ed sang backup. Phil Selway played drums and percussion. Colin Greenwood played bass guitar. Radiohead's lead guitarist was Jonny Greenwood, Colin's younger brother. Jonny was also younger than any of the other members. Jonny was the only member of the band who did not graduate from university. He was also the only member who had attended music school. Jonny had had to leave university after a few months to join Radiohead on a tour when they became popular. But he played in an orchestra when he was young, and he had a knowledge of classical and experimental music and jazz. Thus, Jonny became the band's musical expert. At this stage he already played many instruments, such as keyboard.
It was Jonny's complex and cathartic guitar solos in songs like "Just" and "The Bends" that soon began to attract notice. So did his simpler playing in other songs. The circle of Radiohead fans began to grow. Thom Yorke's lyrics also began talking about larger more political themes during this time. Mostly, they were still about personal disappointments, loves, losses, depression, unease, and anger. But Thom wrote songs like "Fake Plastic Trees" and "Street Spirit" which found the source of the unease in the larger structure of society, not the individual.
Radiohead's style of music had gotten more mature, according to most people, without changing too much. Some others felt their songwriting had improved so much it was no longer unrecognizable. The band used more keyboards and acoustic guitar this time, and made a more subtle atmosphere. But electric guitars were the main instrument used on the record. Some of Radiohead's influences this time were: the post-punk band Magazine, the singer-songwriter Jeff Buckley, Morrissey's (former Smiths singer) "Vauxhall & I", and the music of R.E.M. That band had inspired Radiohead from the beginning. Radiohead would get a chance to tour with them in summer 1995, after releasing the album. Lead singer Michael Stipe became a friend and mentor to Thom, and also a public fan of Radiohead. In 1995 he said "they're so good, they're scary".
The band's influences had expanded once more by the time of their next album "OK Computer".
With "OK Computer", the band started the next section of their career. They started using more sounds from electronic music. They released the album "Kid A" which had a lot less use of guitar than on previous albums, but was still called one of their best albums (with some people calling it their best). An album of songs recorded during this time, but that did not appear on "Kid A" was released, called "Amnesiac". In 2003 they released the album "Hail To The Thief" which was a return to a sound with more guitars and less use of electronic sounds. In 2007 they released "In Rainbows". It was first released for free on the band's website, then released properly on January 1, 2008.
Radiohead has been nominated five times at the BRIT Awards.
Radiohead has received three awards from fourteen nominations at the Grammy Awards.
Radiohead has received one Ivor Novello Award.
Radiohead has received four Mercury Prize nominations.
Radiohead has received one award from ten nominations at the MTV Video Music Awards.
Radiohead has received one nomination at the PLUG Awards.
Radiohead has received two awards from the Q Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="18747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18747" title="Ladino language">
Ladino language

Ladino (also called Judeo-Spanish) is a Jewish language that is very close to the Spanish language from which it originates. It has many old Spanish words and Hebrew words.
During the Middle Ages, many Jews lived in Spain. These Jews were called Sephardic Jews or "Sephardim" (in Hebrew). They were forced to leave Spain after the country was taken over by Christians, and they brought this old Spanish with them to the countries they ran away to. Today some Sephardic Jews still speak Ladino in Israel, Turkey, Bulgaria, the United States, and other countries.
Like many other Jewish languages, Ladino, which as an endangered language, is in danger of language death and thus could become an extinct language. Most native speakers are old, because many of them who emigrated to Israel, did not pass on the language to their children or grandchildren. In some Sephardic Jewish communities in Latin America and elsewhere, there is a threat of dialect levelling, meaning extinction by assimilation into modern Spanish.
Ladino is written using the Latin alphabet and in Israel using the Hebrew alphabet.
Ladino should not be confused with the Ladin language, which is related to the Swiss Romansh and Friulian languages and is mostly spoken in the Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol region of Northern Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="18750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18750" title="Guns N' Roses">
Guns N' Roses

Guns N' Roses is a popular American hard rock band. The band was formed in Los Angeles, California, USA. The five original members of the band were Axl Rose (lead vocals), Slash (lead guitar), Izzy Stradlin (rhythm guitar, backing vocals), Duff McKagan (bass, backing vocals), and Steven Adler (drums). The band's most known songs are "Welcome to the Jungle", "Paradise City", "Sweet Child O'Mine", "Patience", "Live and Let Die", "November Rain", "Knockin' on Heaven's Door", "Don't Cry", and "Civil War".
The music they made was different from the rock music that was popular in the 1980's. They played harder rock music. It was also closer to traditional rock. Because of this, many music fans became interested in Guns N'Roses. Guns N'Roses was created in Los Angeles in June, 1985. By singer W. Axl Rose, guitarists Tracii Guns and Izzy Stradlin, bassist Ole Beich and drummer Rob Gardner. Axl's old band was named Hollywood Rose, and Tracii's old band was named L.A. Guns. They joined the two names and got the name Guns N' Roses. 
In 1985, Guns N' Roses went to Seattle to perform. Tracii Guns and Rob Gardiner could not attend the show. Rose called guitarist Slash and drummer Steven Adler, who were his friends. He asked them for help. They agreed, and became permanent members. On the way back to Los Angeles, the five members wrote the lyrics for 'Welcome to the Jungle' which became one of their most famous songs. Then in 1990 Drummer Steven Adler got fired from the band because of his drug abuse. He was replaced by Cult Drummer Matt Sorum.
Slash, McKagan and Sorum were in Velvet Revolver with Stone Temple Pilots frontman Scott Weiland and Wasted Youth guitarist Dave Kushner, until Scott passed away.
Since parting ways with the "Appetite for Destruction"-line up, Rose has remained a constant member and many line ups have changed since. The band recently released a new album, titled "Chinese Democracy", which had been delayed for over ten years, to mixed reactions. In 2016, Slash and Duff rejoined the band.

</doc>
<doc id="18756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18756" title="1839">
1839


</doc>
<doc id="18759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18759" title="Lake Chaubunagungamaug">
Lake Chaubunagungamaug

Lake Chaubunagungamaug, or Lake Webster is a lake in the United States. It is in the state of Massachusetts. The lake is also known by the much shorter name of "Webster Lake", but some people prefer the long name Chargoggagoggmanchauggagoggchaubunagungamaugg, which is the Native American name for the lake. The name is the longest place name in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="18764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18764" title="Hans Enoksen">
Hans Enoksen

Hans Enoksen (born 1956) was the Prime Minister of Greenland. He was the Prime Minister of Greenland from 2002-2009.

</doc>
<doc id="18765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18765" title="Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit">
Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit

Nunarput utoqqarsuanngoravit ("You Our Ancient Land"; ) is the national anthem of Greenland. It was written by Henrik Lund, and it became the national anthem in 1916.

</doc>
<doc id="18768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18768" title="Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story">
Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story

Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story is a 2004 American comedy movie, released by 20th Century Fox. It is set in Las Vegas, Nevada and stars Ben Stiller, Rip Torn and Vince Vaughn.
A little-known gym, Average Joe's, tries not to go out of business by playing a game of dodgeball against a more expensive rival, Globo's Gym.

</doc>
<doc id="18769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18769" title="Ben Stiller">
Ben Stiller

Ben Stiller (born November 30, 1965) is an American actor, comedian, voice actor, screenwriter, movie director, and producer. He is best known for his roles in "There's Something About Mary", "Zoolander" (2001), "Meet the Parents" (2001) (and its 2004 sequel "Meet the Fockers").
Stiller has also starred in "Flirting with Disaster" (1996), "Duplex" (2003) and "" (2004) among others. One of the first movies he starred in was Steven Spielberg's "Empire of the Sun" (1987) "Tropic Thunder" (2008).
He directed "Reality Bites" (1994) and "The Cable Guy" (1996).
Stiller was born in New York City in 1965. His father, Jerry Stiller, is from a Jewish family that immigrated from Poland and Galicia, in Eastern Europe. His mother, Anne Meara, who was of Irish Catholic background, converted to Reform Judaism after marrying his father. She died in 2015. The family celebrated both Hanukkah and Christmas, and Stiller had a Bar Mitzvah. He has said that he is "half Jewish and half Irish Catholic." Stiller's parents frequently took him on the sets of their appearances, including "The Mike Douglas Show" when he was six. He stated in an interview that he considered his childhood unusual: "In some ways, it was a show-business upbringing—a lot of traveling, a lot of late nights—not what you'd call traditional."
In October 2016, Stiller revealed that he had been diagnosed with prostate cancer in June 2014. Following surgery, he received a cancer-free status in September 2014.
 

</doc>
<doc id="18772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18772" title="Sieve of Eratosthenes">
Sieve of Eratosthenes

The Sieve of Eratosthenes is a simple test to check if a number is a prime number.
If someone wants to check for a certain number "n" to be prime, they do as follows:
Do the following:
Repeat this for all numbers until you reach the square root of "n".
If "n" has been crossed out it is not prime.

</doc>
<doc id="18773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18773" title="Benjamin Franklin">
Benjamin Franklin

Benjamin Franklin (January 17, 1706 – April 17, 1790) was an American statesman and scientist. He has also been known as "the First American". He was a very important person in the American Revolution and helped make the Thirteen Colonies one nation. As a leader of the Enlightenment, he influenced European scientists. He even was the first thing many Europeans associated with America at the time. His successful diplomacy in France was an important factor in the United States' win over Great Britain.
Franklin was born in Boston. After two years of school he stayed home as an apprentice in his father's candle-making shop. Two years after starting to work at his father's shop, he went to work at his brother James' printing shop. While working there, Franklin secretly wrote articles for the newspaper and labelled them as being by "Mrs. Silence Dogood". He quarrelled with his brother and ran away to Philadelphia, then to London and then back to Philadelphia.
Franklin loved books and reading. Franklin, at the age of 21, established the colonies' first circulation library for all interested citizens. He became rich and famous as a printer, publisher and writer. Later, he sold his businesses and became busy with science and politics.
Benjamin Franklin was a very important person in early American politics. He was a leader in the city of Philadelphia, where he did many important things. He was the President of the Academy and College of Philadelphia. Later he became a councilman, a Justice of the Peace, later a representative of the city. In 1757 he went to live in London as agent for Pennsylvania and later for other colonies. He also started one of the first public libraries in Philadelphia.
He was in the Continental Congress, which led the country during the Revolutionary War, and he helped write the United States Declaration of Independence. He controlled the postal service as Postmaster General. As ambassador to France he helped persuade the French to join the war against Great Britain. He helped negotiate the peace, too. Later, he was part of the group that made the Constitution of the United States.
Franklin called himself a printer, but is also known for his writings. Among some of the more well known are Poor Richard's Almanack, and the Pennsylvanian.
Franklin was a scientist who studied experiments in an effort to improve or correct them. One of his greatest contributions was in the theory of electricity.
Most people see Franklin as one of history's greatest inventors. He invented the lightning rod and bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other things.
Franklin died in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from pleurisy, aged 84.
Although Franklin owned slaves, towards the end of his life he freed them, and became an abolitionist.
The city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (where he lived) marked his three hundredth birthday in 2006. Many streets and a few towns are named for him.
A picture of Franklin has been on the United States' hundred-dollar bill since 1928. He was also on the fifty-cent coin for a short time.

</doc>
<doc id="18781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18781" title="Noble Eightfold Path">
Noble Eightfold Path

In Buddhism, the Noble Eightfold Path (Pali: "ariya atthangika magga") is the path to the end of suffering. It is the fourth part of the Four Noble Truths. It can be summed up in three categories: wisdom ("pañña"), virtue ("sila"), and concentration ("samadhi"). It asks for the Right view and the right intention, as well as other things. It also asks for the right speech.
Here is a description of the path:

</doc>
<doc id="18785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18785" title="Gone with the Wind">
Gone with the Wind

Gone with the Wind is a 1936 novel by Margaret Mitchell. It tells the story of Scarlett O'Hara, and her adventures in the American South (and in the plantation of Tara) during the Civil War. During the book, she falls in love with Rhett Butler, a city gentleman. It is one of the most famous books of its time, and was made into a movie with the same name.
The title takes its name from the lines an Ernest Dowson poem: "I have forgot much, Cynara! gone with the wind." (This line also appears in the book.)
Critics and historians have disagreed with its views of Confederacy and the American South before the Civil War. But it is true to the events of the time, and also has a well-written account of the fall of Atlanta in 1864.
The book won the Pulitzer Prize on May 3, 1937.
In 1991, Alexander Ripley wrote its official sequel, "Scarlett". Three years later, it was made as a television miniseries.
In 2001, the copyright holders of the original book tried to stop sales of Alice Randall's "The Wind Done Gone". (The book retold Mitchell's story from a slave's point of view.) The resulting lawsuit allowed the book to be published; it was seen, based on rules in the First Amendment, as a parody.

</doc>
<doc id="18792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18792" title="AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies">
AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies

AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies is a list of the top one hundred movies in American cinema. It was made by the American Film Institute in 1998. The television station CBS aired the list's special.
Movies that were on the list:

</doc>
<doc id="18798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18798" title="Flag of Greenland">
Flag of Greenland

The Flag of Greenland was designed by Greenlander Thue Christiansen. It features two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk at the center. The top half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white. 
Its local name in the Greenlandic language is "Erfalasorput", which means "our flag", but Aappalaartoq (meaning "the red") is also used for both the Greenlandic flag and the Dannebrog. Today Greenlanders display both the Erfalasorput and the Dannebrog, often side-by-side.
Greenland first thought of the idea of a flag of its own in 1973, when five Greenlanders proposed a green, white and blue flag. The following year, a newspaper printed eleven design proposals (all but one of which was a Nordic Cross), and polled the people to determine the most popular. The Dannebrog was better liked than any. Little came of this effort.
In 1978, Denmark granted home rule to Greenland, making it an equal member of the Danish Kingdom. The home rule government asked for flag proposals, receiving 555. 293 were made by Greenlanders. 
Out of all the designs, the current red-and-white design by Christiansen narrowly won over a green-and-white Nordic cross by a vote of fourteen to eleven. Christiansen's red-and-white flag was officially adopted on June 21, 1985.
To honor the tenth anniversary of the Erfalasorput, the Greenland Post Office issued commemorative stamps and a leaflet by its creator. He described the white stripe as representing the glaciers and ice cap; the red stripe, the ocean; the red semicircle, the fjords; and the white semicircle, the icebergs and pack ice. The design is also reminiscent of the setting sun half-submerged below the horizon and reflected on the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="18799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18799" title="Greenlandic language">
Greenlandic language

Greenlandic can be divided into three dialects:
Kalaallisut or, in English, Greenlandic, is the name given to the standard dialect and official language of Greenland. This standard national language is now taught to all Greenlanders in school, regardless of their native dialect. It reflects almost exclusively the language of western Greenland and has borrowed a great deal of vocabulary from Danish, while Canadian and Alaskan Inuit languages have tended to take words from English or sometimes French and Russian. It is written using the Roman alphabet. The dialect of the Upernavik area in northwest Greenland is somewhat different in sound from the standard dialect. 
Tunumiit oraasiat, (or Tunumiisut in Kalaallisut, often East Greenlandic in other languages), is the dialect of eastern Greenland. It differs sharply from other Inuit language variants and has roughly 3,000 speakers.
Avanersuaq is the dialect of the area around Qaanaaq in northern Greenland. It is sometimes called the Thule dialect or North Greenlandic. This area is the northernmost settlement area of the Inuit and has a relatively small number of speakers. It is reputed to be fairly close to the North Baffin dialect, since a group of Inuit from Baffin Island settled in the area during the 19th and early 20th centuries. It counts under 1,000 speakers.

</doc>
<doc id="18802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18802" title="Earthworm">
Earthworm

An earthworm is an invertebrate animal with a long, stretchy body and no legs. It is a type of annelid. 
There are 5,500 known species of worms. They can be found everywhere, except in polar or dry climates. Their sizes vary: they can be between two centimeters and about three meters in length. The biggest known earthworm is the giant Gippsland earthworm, found in Australia. It is usually about 80cm in length, but can grow to about 3 meters.
The most common earthworm (in Europe, and most other temperate climate regions) grows to a size of about 20-25 cm when extended.
Most earthworms can regrow lost segments, assuming the worm has not had too much damage. This capability varies by species.
Long ago, all animals looking like worms were lumped together by John Ray and by Linnaeus in their classifications. Later, biologists found that some were in quite different groups. Roundworms and flatworms are different phyla. Inchworms are a type of caterpillar, and the slow-worm is a legless lizard.
The average earthworm is a reddish brown color, with a pointed posterior and anterior end. There are no eyes or other discerning facial features, only a simply opening for a mouth. Earthworms have long, segmented bodies, covered in microscopic setae, or bristles, which help to anchor and pull the worm via longitudinal muscle contractions. Earthworms have no lungs, and absorb oxygen directly through their skin. In order to do this, they must stay moist, and do so by lubricating their skin with glands along their bodies.
Earthworms are invertebrates, lacking a skeleton. To support and shape the body, they are filled with coelomic fluid. Earthworms sometimes appear to have a "belt" or "saddle" around their bodies; this is a clitelum, a structure containing maturing eggs.
Earthworms typically live in damp (but not wet), loose soil. They can also be found in loose leaf litter, and after it rains they can be found on the surface as they are forced out of the water-logged soil. Many gardeners welcome earthworms, as they aerate and enrich the soil with their droppings. They are quite happy in compost, gorging themselves on decaying vegetable matter. An earthworm's burrow can be seen by the pile of dark, sand-like droppings, or casts, surrounding the entrance.
Earthworms are hermaphrodites, meaning they each contain male and female gametes. During mating, both worms exchange sperm and have eggs fertilized. The belt-like swollen area on the earthworm’s body, commonly called the "saddle" or "belt", is called a clitelum. It secretes a slimy substance that forms capsules which protect the eggs (sperm cells and eggs merge inside the capsule and form embryos). Inside, 1-20 eggs mature, taking between 60 and 90 days to hatch, depending on environmental factors such as humidity and temperature. An earthworm takes up to a year to fully mature, and in the wild they can live from 4 to 8 years.
The typical earthworm diet is decaying matter, leaf litter, microbial fungi, and other microscopic organisms. Earthworms are important to the environment, breaking down organic matter and passing it through their gut as newly enriched soil. An earthworm has no teeth, so it swallows grit to help grind food in its multi-chambered gut. As an earthworm burrows and feeds, it aerates the soil and adds nutrients from deeper soil layers to upper layers, making easier new plant growth in the process. For this reason, they are valued by farmers and gardeners worldwide. 

</doc>
<doc id="18803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18803" title="Wire">
Wire

Wire is a long, thin and flexible piece of metal. Wires are made in many different metals and sizes, and are used for many purposes. Wire rope has been used for centuries. 
Electrical wire is wire used to carry electricity. When people touch wire that is carrying electricity, they get shocked, which is bad, so the outside coating of electrical wires is colored. Most electric wires are black, but some wires have a differently colored coating. Different colors indicate different purposes, for example, in the United States, green or bare is a ground (earth) wire, white is a neutral wire, and black, blue, red, brown, yellow, and orange are hot (live) wires.
A wiretap is when law enforcement puts a device into a phone or other electronic device to hear what suspected criminals are going to do. 
Copper wire is the best known type of wire, but wire can also be made out of aluminum or other metals. If we did not have wiring almost all of our electronics would not be working or available.

</doc>
<doc id="18804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18804" title="Whistle">
Whistle

A whistle is a thing to make a high sound, or the act of making a similar sound with a person's breath through their lips. 

</doc>
<doc id="18805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18805" title="Whip">
Whip

A whip is a long strand of leather or other fabric with a hard handle. When a person shakes a whip fast, it makes a loud "crack" sound, because it has broken the sound barrier. It is used for directing or hitting animals or people.

</doc>
<doc id="18806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18806" title="Die Toten Hosen">
Die Toten Hosen

Die Toten Hosen is a German punk band from Düsseldorf, Germany. They are one of the most popular punk bands from Germany. Their career started in 1982. Their first album was released in 1984 and named "Opel-Gang".
Most of their songs are in German. Some are in English and in a few other languages such as Spanish. They have many fans in German-speaking countries but also they have many fans in South America and other parts of Europe. 
The band consists of the following members:

</doc>
<doc id="18809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18809" title="Balalaika">
Balalaika

The balalaika is a musical instrument from Russia. The Balalaika family includes the piccolo balalaika, prima balalaika, sekunda balalaika, alto balalaika, bass balalaika and contrabass balalaika. They all have three strings. There are many ways to tune balalaika; the most common tuning is E-E-A. The prima balalaika is played with the fingers, the sekunda and alto either with the fingers or a pick depending on the music being played. The basses and contrabasses, which have legs that rest on the floor, are played with leather picks.
Early pictures of the balalaika show it had between two and six strings, like some Central Asian instruments. Frets on earlier balalaikas were made of animal gut and tied to the neck so that they could be moved around by the player.
The balalaika was improved by a Russian, Vasily Vasil'yevich Andreev. He had heard peasants on his farm playing badly made instruments. Andreev wanted to improve the instrument and use it for concerts. He spent the rest of his life working on this instrument with help from two violin makers and a carpenter. They improved the soundboard, which made it louder. He came up with the idea of the prima balalaike, sekunda, alto, bass and controbass balalaika. He then spent several years writing and arranging music for groups of balalaikas to play. The first public performance by the Ensemble of Balalaika Players took place in 1888.
After the Russian Revolution, the Communist Party encouraged the playing of the instrument and large balalaika orchestras were started.

</doc>
<doc id="18810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18810" title="Klezmer">
Klezmer

Klezmer is a kind of music. It was made by the Jews of Eastern Europe, and it is a mix of Russian, Greek and Romanian folk music, based on and Jewish prayer music. 
In old times, it was played during Jewish weddings and religious festivals, and it was made for dancing. The most common klezmer instruments are the clarinet and the violin, because they are the best to play in the sad klezmer style.

</doc>
<doc id="18812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18812" title="New South Wales">
New South Wales

New South Wales is one of the states of Australia. It the oldest state in Australia and is sometimes called the "Premier State". Of all Australian states, New South Wales has the most people. An inhabitant of New South Wales is referred to as a New South Welshman. The capital city of New South Wales is Sydney. Sydney is the biggest city in Australia. 
The name New South Wales came from the journal of Lieutenant James Cook (later Captain Cook), who sailed up the east coast of Australia in 1770. He thought that the land looked like the south coast of Wales. He named it "New Wales" but then changed the name in his journal to "New South Wales".
New South Wales was founded (begun) in 1788, by the British who set up a small colony which became known as Sydney Town, and grew into the city of Sydney. The British colony of New South Wales originally included more than half of the Australian mainland, as well as New Zealand, Lord Howe Island and Norfolk Island. During the 19th century large areas were separated to form the British colonies of Tasmania, South Australia, Victoria, Queensland and New Zealand.
New South Wales has four main geographical areas:
The state is bordered on the north by Queensland, on the west by South Australia, and on the south by Victoria. Its coast faces the Tasman Sea. New South Wales contains two Federal Territories: the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), and the Jervis Bay Territory.
New South Wales' three big cities are Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong which all lie along the coast. Other settlements include Albury, a large town which borders with Victoria; Broken Hill, the most westerly large town; Dubbo; Orange, Bowral, Bathurst, home of the Bathurst 1000; Port Macquarie, Tamworth, home to the country music festival; Armidale, Inverell, Lismore, Nowra, Gosford, Griffith, Queanbeyan, Leeton, Wagga Wagga, Goulburn, where a lot of Australia's fruit is grown and Coffs Harbour, a popular tourist destination.
The population of New South Wales at the end of June 2007 was 6.89 million people. Population grew by 1.1% over the preceding year, lower than the national rate of 1.5%.
62.9% of NSW's population is based in Sydney.

</doc>
<doc id="18813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18813" title="Hemp">
Hemp

Hemp ("Cannabis sativa" subsp. "sativa") is a plant and the fibers made from it. It is a subspecies of the "Cannabis sativa" plant. It is usually used to make cloth and other textiles, and ropes.
Hemp is one of the oldest plants humans have grown and used. Hemp was domesticated in Asia over 10,000 years ago. It was already used to make clothes, ropes, and an early form of paper. The seeds were eaten, and the plant had medicinal uses. From there the use of hemp spread. In Europe, hemp was at least used 5,500 years ago. It is one of the earliest domesticated plants recorded. It is quite strong and does not need many pesticides (to keep away bugs) and no herbicides. Linen and hemp were the most important fiber plants in Europe for a long time.
Hemp is similar to marijuana, but contains very little THC, the chemical that makes people feel good while using marijuana. Unlike marijuana (now legal in Colorado), hemp is completely legal in the United States, France, Spain, Indonesia, England, and Ireland.

</doc>
<doc id="18816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18816" title="1000s">
1000s

The 1000s is the first decade of the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="18817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18817" title="1010s">
1010s


</doc>
<doc id="18818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18818" title="1157">
1157


</doc>
<doc id="18819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18819" title="1512">
1512


</doc>
<doc id="18820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18820" title="Lung">
Lung

The lung is an organ in many vertebrates (animals having a "spine", or backbone). It gives blood oxygen from the air, and takes away carbon dioxide. Most vertebrates have 2 lungs.
In animals, the lungs are the area where gas exchange takes place. Without gas exchange, oxygen would not pass into the blood from the lungs so the body cells would not be able to receive the oxygen needed for respiration.
The alveoli are moist to allow oxygen to move from the lung through the alveoli into blood vessels and red blood cells. Carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the alveoli. The oxygen-filled blood goes back to the heart and the carbon dioxide in the alveoli is pushed out of the lungs and into the air we breathe out.
Birds lungs do not have alveoli, instead they have millions of para-bronchi. These para-bronchi end up in tiny capillaries or very small blood vessels and they pass close to the body's blood vessels, so diffusion can occur and the oxygen and carbon dioxide is exchanged. The oxygen and carbon dioxide in birds lungs are continuously diffused into and out of the blood, not like in mammals where diffusion can only happen in the alveoli.
Reptile lungs open and close because of the ribs surrounding them pressing down on them and then opening up with the help of muscles. The liver is also attached to the bottom of the lungs and when a muscle which is attached to the liver pulls, the liver moves away from the lungs and pulls them, making them bigger.
Frog lungs are very simple compared to most other lungs, they are simply balloons, with moist outsides allowing for diffusion. But frogs do not move around much and so do not need lots of oxygen, but they can also take in oxygen through their moist outer skin if a big demand of oxygen is needed (e.g. Fight or Flight).

</doc>
<doc id="18822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18822" title="Kansas City">
Kansas City

Kansas City is the name of two cities in the United States of America.

</doc>
<doc id="18827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18827" title="Rock music">
Rock music

Rock music is a genre of popular music. It developed during and after the 1960s in the United Kingdom and the United States. It originally started in the 1940s and 1950s with the start of rock and roll. Rock and roll grew out of rhythm and blues and country music. Rock music is related to a number of other genres such as blues and folk. It has influences from jazz, classical and other music genres.
Musically, rock mostly uses the electric guitar as part of a rock group with bass guitar and drums. Rock music is song-based. It has a 4/4 beat and it has verse-chorus form. However, rock has become very different and it is hard to say what its common musical instruments are. Like popular music, rock music lyrics are mostly about "romantic love". They can also have social or have political themes, however. Rock focuses on musical skill, live performance, and it tries to be more real than pop music.
By the late 1960s, a number of different rock music below-genres had come out. These included hybrids like blues rock, folk rock, country rock, and jazz-rock fusion. From these forms, the counterculture developed psychedelic rock. New genres that came from this scene included progressive rock, glam rock and heavy metal. Progressive rock made the music more artistic. Glam rock focused on showmanship and what you can see. Heavy metal which focused on loudness, power and speed. In the second half of the 1970s, punk rock both intensified and reacted against some of these trends to produce a raw, energetic form of music characterized by overt political and social critiques. Punk caused other below-genres to come about into the 1980s, including New Wave, post-punk and eventually the alternative rock movement. From the 1990s, alternative rock began to be the most popular type of rock music. It broke through into the mainstream in the form of grunge, Britpop, and indie rock. More merging of below-genres have since emerged. These include pop punk, rap rock, and rap metal, as well as conscious attempts to revisit rock's history, including the garage rock/post-punk and synthpop revivals at the beginning of the new millennium.
Rock music has also helped cultural and social movements. This led to large sub-cultures including mods and rockers in the UK and the "hippie" culture that spread out from San Francisco in the US in the 1960s. Similarly, 1970s punk culture made the goth and emo subcultures. Rock music has the same folk tradition as the protest song. Rock music has been involved with political activism. It has also made changes to social attitudes towards race, sex and drug use. It is often seen as an expression of youth revolt against adult consumerism and conformity.

</doc>
<doc id="18829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18829" title="Cream">
Cream

Cream (also called milkfat, milk fat, and butterfat) is the fatty part of regular milk. Skimmed milk (or skim milk) is milk sold with some or nearly all of the fat removed. Cream is usually used in coffee to make it lighter in taste.

</doc>
<doc id="18835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18835" title="Category:Soap operas">
Category:Soap operas


</doc>
<doc id="18836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836" title="Time dilation">
Time dilation

Time dilation is a physics concept about changes in the passage of time, as related to relativity. It is a difference of elapsed time between two events "as measured by observers". In Albert Einstein's theories of relativity, there are two types of time dilation: 
Case #1: In special relativity, clocks that are moving run slower according to a stationary observer's clock. "This effect does not come from workings of the clocks, but from the nature of spacetime".
Case #2: the observers may be in positions with different gravitational masses. In general relativity, clocks that are near a strong gravitational field run slower than clocks in a weaker gravitational field.
Experiments support both aspects of time dilation.
The formula for determining time dilation in special relativity is:
where
It could also be written as:
where
A simple summary is that more time is measured on the clock at rest than the moving clock, therefore, the moving clock is "running slow".
When both clocks are not moving, relative to each other, the two times measured are the same. This can be proven mathematically by
For example:
In a spaceship moving at 99% of the speed of light, a year passes. How much time will pass on earth?
Substituting into :formula_1
So approximately 7.09 years will pass on earth, for each year in the spaceship.
In ordinary life today, time dilation had not been a factor, where people move at speeds much less than the speed of light, the speeds are not great enough to produce any detectable time dilation effects. Such vanishingly small effects can be safely ignored. It is only when an object approaches speeds on the order of (10% the speed of light) that time dilation becomes important.
However, there are practical uses of time dilation. A big example is with keeping the clocks on GPS satellites accurate. Without accounting for time dilation, the GPS result would be useless, because time runs faster on satellites so far from Earth's gravity. GPS devices would calculate the wrong position due to the time difference if the space clocks were not set to run slower on Earth to offset the quicker time in high Earth orbit (geostationary orbit).

</doc>
<doc id="18848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18848" title="Supreme Court of the United States">
Supreme Court of the United States

The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the United States of America. Because of this, the Court leads the Judicial Branch of the United States Federal Government. It is the only U.S. court established by the United States Constitution, and its decisions are supposed to be followed by all other courts in the United States. The Court meets in its own building in Washington, D.C. However, until 1935, the Supreme Court met in the United States Capitol. 
The number of judges—called "justices"—on the Supreme Court has changed over time. There are 9 justices on the court now: one Chief Justice and eight Associate Justices. Courts are unofficially named for the Chief Justice; the current Court is called the "Roberts Court" after Chief Justice John Roberts.
The Supreme Court chooses which cases it will decide on. Many people ask the Supreme Court to decide their cases, but the court refuses most of them. For the Supreme Court to decide a case, the case must be about federal law or be about the laws of more than one state. Cases must first be decided by a federal District Court and a federal Court of Appeals or by a state supreme court. Even after that, the Supreme Court can choose not to decide a case for any reason. There are some cases which start in the Supreme Court and which the Supreme Court must decide, but they are very rare.
The justices serve for life unless they want to retire earlier or are impeached. If a justice retires, he or she can still be asked to serve as a judge on a federal Court of Appeals. New justices are nominated (picked) by the President of the United States, and then must be approved by the Senate. Usually, the President tries to pick someone who is not too old and who he thinks shares his legal or political beliefs. Sometimes, the judges have surprised people when they turn out to be more liberal or conservative than expected.
The current Justices are:

</doc>
<doc id="18849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18849" title="Category:Family">
Category:Family

These articles are about English words for family members.

</doc>
<doc id="18859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18859" title="Fall (motion)">
Fall (motion)

A fall is a movement that happens due to gravity, such as when something rolls off a table and falls down to the floor. Falling is a common cause of people's injuries, especially for elderly people and for people who do sports and other leisure activities.
In some cases, elderly people become less steady on their feet. If elderly people fall to the ground, they are at a greater risk of having serious injuries, such as breaking their hip.
During sports and other recreational activities such as bicycling or skateboarding, people are more likely to fall. Some bicyclists and skateboarders wear protective clothing to protect their body in the event of a fall, such as a helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads.
There is also an expression "falling in love," which means when two people begin to feel romantic love or emotional attachment to each other.

</doc>
<doc id="18860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18860" title="Autumn">
Autumn

Autumn is the season after summer and before winter. In the United States this season is also called fall. In the Northern Hemisphere, it begins with the autumnal equinox in September and ends with the winter solstice in December. In the Southern Hemisphere, it runs from the autumnal equinox in March to the winter solstice in June.
In many places in the temperate zone, autumn is a time for harvesting most crops. Deciduous trees (trees that lose their leaves every year) lose their leaves, usually after turning yellow, red, or brown. In many countries, autumn is the time a new school year starts. In the UK, the period of school between the start of September and the end of December is known as the 'Autumn Term'.
When it is autumn in the Northern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Southern Hemisphere. When it is autumn in the Southern Hemisphere, it is spring in the Northern Hemisphere. On the Equator, autumn is very much like spring, with little difference in temperature or in weather. Autumn is a time when most animals are looking for food so they can store up for winter, because they soon will be going into hibernation. The weather gets colder and more windy. In Autumn the hours of daylight and the hours of night are the same. In autumn the weather changes all the time. The weather turns cooler and often windy and rainy.

</doc>
<doc id="18861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18861" title="Fall">
Fall

Fall has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="18862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862" title="Holocaust denial">
Holocaust denial

Holocaust denial is the claim that The Holocaust did not happen, or was not as bad as most people think it was. History experts agree that during World War II, the Nazis did kill millions of people during the Holocaust, including many people in concentration camps. They agree that there is more proof in writing, pictures, and places about the Holocaust than any other great killing of people. Holocaust deniers usually call themselves "Holocaust revisionists." They use these words to make their beliefs sound true to people who do not know this history. They say that the Holocaust is a hoax made up by Jewish people working together. 
It is against the criminal law to deny the Holocaust in many European countries, especially in Germany. Some Holocaust deniers, like Ernst Zündel, have been charged with crimes.
These are Holocaust deniers' most common arguments:
Holocaust denial also includes these claims:
History experts agree that the Holocaust happened. They agree that Holocaust deniers use bad research, misunderstand things, and sometimes make things up to support their claims.
Many things together prove that the Holocaust did happen:

</doc>
<doc id="18863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18863" title="John Locke">
John Locke

John Locke (; 29 August 1632 – 28 October 1704), known as the "Father of Liberalism", was an English philosopher and physician. His writings influenced Voltaire and Rousseau, a lot of Scottish Enlightenment thinkers, as well as the American revolutionaries. He is mentioned in the American Declaration of Independence.
Locke's theories were usually about identity and the self. Locke thought that we are born without thoughts, and that knowledge is instead determined only by experience.
Locke's father, who was also named John Locke, was a country lawyer. He had served as a captain in the early part of the English Civil War. His mother, Agnes Keene, was a tanner's daughter and was thought to be very beautiful. Both mother and father were Puritans. 
Locke was born on 29 August 1632, in a cottage by the church in Wrington, Somerset, about twelve miles from Bristol. He was baptized when he was born. After that, his family soon moved to Pensford.
In 1647, Locke was sent to Westminster School in London. During this time he was being sponsored by Alexander Popham, a member of the Parliament. After finishing his studies there, he went into the Christ Church. Although Locke was a good student, he did not like the schedule of the time spent there. He did not like the classical subjects taught at the university, and wanted to learn more about modern philosophy. Through his friend Richard Lower, whom he had met at the school, Locke learned about medicine.
Locke was awarded a bachelor's degree in 1656 and a master's degree in 1658. In 1666, he met Lord Anthony Ashley Cooper, who had come to Oxford seeking treatment for his liver disease. Cooper was impressed with Locke and asked him to come.
Locke had been looking for a job and in 1667 moved into Shaftesbury's home at Exeter House in London, to serve as Lord Ashley's personal physician. In London, Locke continued his studies on medicine.
Locke's medical knowledge was put to the test when Shaftesbury's liver disease became worse until Shaftesbury was about to die. Locke used the advice of several physicians and persuaded Shaftesbury to go to an operation. Shaftesbury lived through the operation and thanked Locke for saving his life.
Shaftesbury, as a member of the Whig movement, was a big influence on Locke's political ideas. However, after Shaftesbury began to fall from favor in 1675, Locke decided to travel across France. He came back to England in 1679. At this time, due to Shaftesbury's insists, Locke wrote the "Two Treatises of Government". While it was once thought that Locke wrote the Treatises to defend the Glorious Revolution of 1688, recent scholarship has shown that the work was composed before this even started.
However, Locke ran away to the Netherlands in 1683. This is because people became suspicious of him being involved in the Rye House Plot. In the Netherlands, Locke had time to return to his writing, spending a great deal of time re-working the Essay. Locke did not return home until after the Glorious Revolution. Locke came with William of Orange's wife back to England in 1688.
Locke's close friend Lady Masham invited him to join her at the Mashams' country house in Essex. Although his time there was marked by variable health from asthma attacks, he nevertheless became an intellectual hero of the Whigs. During this period he discussed matters with such figures as John Dryden and Isaac Newton.
He died in 28 October 1704, and is buried in the churchyard of the village of High Laver, east of Harlow in Essex, where he had lived in the household of Sir Francis Masham since 1691. Locke never married nor had children. 
Events that happened during Locke's lifetime include the English Restoration, the Great Plague of London and the Great Fire of London. He did not quite see the Act of Union of 1707, though the thrones of England and Scotland were held in personal union throughout his lifetime. Constitutional monarchy and parliamentary democracy were in their infancy during Locke's time.

</doc>
<doc id="18864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18864" title="Marcha Real">
Marcha Real

La Marcha Real (English translation: "The Royal March") is the national anthem (country's song) of Spain. It is one of the few national anthems in the world (our planet Earth) to have only music, and no words.
Let's sing together,
with different voices,
and only one heart.
Long live Spain!
from the green valleys,
to the vast sea,
a hymn of brotherhood.
Love the Motherland,
which embrace
the free peoples
below its blue sky.
Glory to the sons,
who have given to history,
justice and greatness!

</doc>
<doc id="18867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18867" title="Satellite (artificial)">
Satellite (artificial)

A satellite is an object that orbits another object. In space, satellites may be made by man, or they may be natural. The moon is a natural satellite that orbits the Earth. Most man-made satellites also orbit the Earth, but some orbit other planets, such as Saturn, Venus or Mars, or the moon.
Satellites are used for many purposes. There are weather satellites, communications satellites, reconnaissance satellites, astronomy satellites and many other kinds. 
Herman Potočnik proposed and Arthur C. Clarke popularized the idea of the communications satellite.
The world's first artificial satellite, the Sputnik 1, was launched by the Soviet Union on October 4, 1957. This surprised the world, and the United States quickly worked to launch their own satellite, starting the space race. Sputnik 2 was launched on November 3, 1957 and carried the first living passenger into orbit, a dog named Laika. The United States launched their first satellite, called "Explorer 1" on January 31, 1958. The UK launched its first satellite in 1962. 
Since then, thousands of satellites have been launched into orbit around the Earth. Some satellites, notably space stations, have been launched in parts and assembled in orbit.
Artificial satellites come from more than 50 countries and have used the satellite launching capabilities of ten nations. A few hundred satellites are currently working, but thousands of unused satellites and satellite fragments orbit the Earth as space debris. The largest satellite is the International Space Station, which was put together by several different countries (including the organizations of NASA, ESA, JAXA and RKA). It usually has a crew of six astronauts or cosmonauts living on board. It is permanently occupied, but the crew changes. The Hubble Space Telescope has been repaired and updated by astronauts in space several times.
There are also man-made satellites orbiting something other than the Earth. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter is one of those orbiting Mars. Cassini-Huygens is orbiting Saturn. Venus Express, run by the ESA, is orbiting Venus. Two GRAIL satellites orbited the moon until December 2012. Several satellites have orbited the Sun for years and one is to be added in 2017.
Man-made satellites have several main uses:
Most of the man-made satellites are in a low Earth orbit (LEO) or a geostationary orbit. To stay in orbit, the satellite's sideways speed must balance the force of gravity. Satellites in low orbit are often less than one thousand kilometers above the ground. Close to the Earth, in LEO, the satellites must move faster to stay in orbit. Low orbits work well for satellites that take pictures of the Earth. Many do jobs that call for high orbital inclination (they swing above and below the equator), so they can communicate, or look at other areas. It is easier to put a satellite in low Earth orbit, but the satellite appears to move when viewed from Earth. This means a satellite dish (a type of antenna) must be always moving in order to send or receive communications with that satellite. 
Medium orbit works well for GPS satellites - receivers on Earth use the satellite's changing position and precise time (and a type of antenna that does not have to be pointed) to find where on Earth the receiver is. But constantly changing positions does not work for satellite TV and other types of satellites that send and receive a lot of information. Those need to be in geostationary orbit. 
A satellite in a geostationary orbit moves around the Earth as fast as the Earth spins, so from the ground it looks like it is stationary (not moving). To move this way, the satellite must be straight above the equator, and 35,786 kilometers (22,236 miles) above the ground.

</doc>
<doc id="18869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18869" title="Césarville-Dossainville">
Césarville-Dossainville

Césarville-Dossainville is a French village in the "département" of Loiret and the "région" of Centre.

</doc>
<doc id="18870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18870" title="La Marseillaise">
La Marseillaise

La Marseillaise is the national anthem of France.
It was written by Rouget de Lisle in Strasbourg on April 26, 1792. It was first called "Chant de guerre pour l'armée du Rhin" ("Marching Song of the Rhine Army").
Composers have often quoted La Marseillaise in their music, for example Tchaikovsky uses it in the 1812 overture.

</doc>
<doc id="18874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18874" title="Nashville, Tennessee">
Nashville, Tennessee

Nashville is the capital city of the U.S. state of Tennessee. It is on the Cumberland River in Davidson County. Nashville is the home of the Grand Ole Opry, the Country Music Hall of Fame, and many major record labels.
Nashville has 569,891 people in it (according to the 2000 census), making it the second biggest city in Tennessee after Memphis. A resident of Nashville is called a "Nashvillian".
The City of Nashville and Davidson County joined in 1963 as a way for Nashville to fight the problems of urban sprawl. The joint metropolitan government offers services such as police, firefighting, electricity, running water, and waste water disposal.
Nashville sports teams include:

</doc>
<doc id="18875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18875" title="Salem, Oregon">
Salem, Oregon

Salem (IPA: [ˈseɪ lm̩]) is the capital city of the state of Oregon in the United States of America, and county seat of Marion County. As of 2003 it has 142,940 people living in it. It is in the Willamette Valley.

</doc>
<doc id="18876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18876" title="Harrisburg, Pennsylvania">
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

Harrisburg is the capital city of Pennsylvania, one of the four U.S. states called a "Commonwealth" of the United States. As of the 2010 census, the city has 49,528 people living in it.
Harrisburg is the county seat of Dauphin County and is on the Susquehanna River, 105 miles (169 km) northwest of Philadelphia.

</doc>
<doc id="18877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18877" title="Olympia, Washington">
Olympia, Washington

Olympia is the capital city of the state of Washington, in the United States of America. It became a city on January 28, 1859. As of the 2010 census, it has 46,478 people living in it. The people of Olympia are called "Olympians". Olympia is the county seat of Thurston County.
Olympia is located at 47°2'33" North, 122°53'35" West (47.042418, -122.893077).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total size of 48.0 km² (18.5 mi²). 43.3 km² (16.7 mi²) of it is land and 4.7 km² (1.8 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 9.77% water.
Olympia is on the water (Puget Sound) and close to dark green forests and high mountains (the Olympic Mountains and Mount Rainier). On most days of the year the sky is full of clouds and it rains, but sunny weather is more common in July, August, and September.
Many people in Olympia work for the government of the State of Washington. Every year, state representatives and state senators come to Olympia to make laws and to pass a budget for the state government.
Olympia is the home of the Olympia Farmers Market and The Evergreen State College.
Every April, the people of Olympia celebrate the "Procession of the Species,". It is a parade. Many Olympians, of all ages, dress up to look like animals, birds, fish, plants, and even insects, and walk in the parade. Some also play drums or dance the samba.

</doc>
<doc id="18880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18880" title="Invertebrate">
Invertebrate

Invertebrate is a kind of animal that does not have a spinal column or "backbone". It is the opposite of vertebrate, that means if an animal is not a vertebrate (fish, reptile, amphibian, bird, or mammal), it is an invertebrate.
The main phyla (groups) of invertebrate animals are:
Insects have no bones, but they have a skeleton on the outside of their bodies that scientists call an exoskeleton. It is like skin, only it is hard.
There are 18 more groups of invertebrates, mostly minor: see List of animal phyla.

</doc>
<doc id="18881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18881" title="Sugar, We're Goin Down">
Sugar, We're Goin Down

"Sugar, We’re Goin' Down" is the first single from the "From Under the Cork Tree" album, by Fall Out Boy and it was the song that made them famous. It was released in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="18884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18884" title="Lawrence of Arabia">
Lawrence of Arabia

Lawrence of Arabia is a British epic movie from 1962, based on the life of T. E. Lawrence. It stars Peter O'Toole as the title character, along with Omar Sharif and Alec Guinness. The opening scene of the movie shows Lawrence dying in a motorcycle accident. The movie then goes into a series of flashbacks (past events) from his life. 
The 1982 movie "Gandhi" follows "Lawrence of Arabia's"'s story pattern: after the main character dies at the start, it moves into a series of flashbacks from Gandhi's life.
"Lawrence of Arabia" won seven Academy Awards, one of them for Best Picture.
Considered one of the greatest movies ever made, it has appeared on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list (as the number five selecion).
A director's cut of the movie, running at 216 minutes, has no women talking in it.

</doc>
<doc id="18892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18892" title="Glyphosate">
Glyphosate

Glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide used in agriculture for the control of weeds, shrubs, and grasses. One brand name it is sold as is Monsanto's "Roundup". It is also used in genetically modified crops.

</doc>
<doc id="18896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18896" title="Pudding">
Pudding

Pudding is a popular dessert and snack. It tastes sweet, and comes in many flavors. The most common kind of pudding is chocolate. Some other kinds are vanilla, butterscotch, banana, and pistachio. Most pudding today is made out of milk, sugar, flavoring, and flour. Eggs can be used, too. If you do not want to make the pudding, you do not have to. The grocery store sells pudding that is already made. One of the most popular makers of pudding in the United States is Jell-O.
In Britain, the word "pudding" is often used for any dessert, especially a dessert made with flour and eggs and cooked by steaming, boiling or baking, e.g. treacle pudding, chocolate pudding or Spotted Dick (pudding with raisins or currants). There are also milk puddings such as rice pudding or semolina.
Confusingly, "steak and kidney pudding" is a savoury dish, similar to "steak and kidney pie" but with a softer pastry.

</doc>
<doc id="18897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18897" title="Sigmund Freud">
Sigmund Freud

Sigmund Freud (Moravia, 6 May 1856 – London, 23 September 1939) was an Austrian neurologist (a person who treats the nervous system). He invented the treatment of mental illness and neurosis by means of psychoanalysis.
Freud is important in psychology because he studied the unconscious mind. The unconscious part of the mind cannot be easily controlled or noticed by a person.
In 1860 his family moved with their little boy to Vienna. He did well in school and became a doctor. Freud married Martha Bernays in 1886. They had six children.
Freud lived in Austria in the 1930s. After the Anschluss, Germany and Austria were combined. Because he was Jewish, he received a visit from the Gestapo. Freud and his family did not feel safe anymore. Freud left Vienna and went to England in June 1938.
Freud developed a theory of the human mind (its organisation and operations). He also had a theory that human behaviour both conditions and results from how the mind is organised. 
This led him to favor certain clinical techniques for trying to help cure mental illness. He theorised that personality is developed by a person's childhood experiences.
Freud began his study of medicine at the University of Vienna at the age of 17. He got his M.D. degree in 1881 at the age of 25 and entered private practice in neurology for financial reasons. 
Freud hoped that his research would provide a solid scientific basis for his therapeutic technique. The goal of Freudian therapy, or psychoanalysis, was to bring repressed thoughts and feelings into consciousness in order to free the patient from suffering distorted emotions.
Classically, the bringing of unconscious thoughts and feelings to consciousness is brought about by encouraging a patient to talk in free association and to talk about dreams.
In November 1880 Breuer was called in to treat a highly intelligent 21-year-old woman (Bertha Pappenheim) for a persistent cough which he diagnosed as hysterical. He found that while nursing her dying father she had developed a number of transitory symptoms, including visual disorders and paralysis and contractures of limbs, which he also diagnosed as hysterical. 
Breuer began to see his patient almost every day as the symptoms increased and became more persistent. He found that when, with his encouragement, she told fantasy stories her condition improved, and most of her symptoms had disappeared by April 1881. However, following the death of her father in that month her condition deteriorated again. Breuer recorded that some of the symptoms eventually remitted spontaneously, and that full recovery was achieved by inducing her to recall events that had precipitated the occurrence of a specific symptom. This recovery is disputed.
Freud famously proposed that unconscious memories of infantile sexual abuse were at the root of the psychoneuroses. However, patients were generally unconvinced that Freud's clinical procedure indicated actual sexual abuse. He reported that even after a supposed "reproduction" of sexual scenes the patients assured him emphatically of their disbelief.
As a medical researcher, Freud was an early user and proponent of cocaine as a stimulant as well as analgesic. He wrote several articles on the antidepressant qualities of the drug and he was influenced by friend and confidant Wilhelm Fliess, who recommended cocaine for the treatment of "nasal reflex neurosis". 
Freud felt that cocaine would work as a cure for many conditions and wrote a well-received paper, "On Coca", explaining its virtues. He prescribed it to his friend Ernst von Fleischl-Marxow to help him overcome a morphine addiction acquired while treating a disease of the nervous system. Freud also recommended cocaine to many of his close family and friends. 
Reports of addiction and overdose began to come from many parts of the world. Freud's medical reputation became somewhat tarnished because of this early ambition. Furthermore, Freud's friend Fleischl-Marxow developed an acute case of 'cocaine psychosis' as a result of Freud's prescriptions, and died a few years later. Freud felt great regret over these events.
Freud made arguments about the importance of the unconscious mind in understanding conscious thought and behavior. 
However the unconscious was not discovered by Freud. Historian of psychology Mark Altschule concluded, "It is difficult—or perhaps impossible—to find a nineteenth-century psychologist or psychiatrist who did not recognize unconscious thought as not only real but of the highest importance". Freud's advance was not to uncover the unconscious but to devise a method for systematically studying it.
Freud called dreams the "royal road to the knowledge of the unconscious in mental life". This meant that dreams illustrate the "logic" of the unconscious mind. Freud developed his first topology of the psyche in "The Interpretation of Dreams" (1899) in which he proposed that the unconscious exists and described a method for gaining access to it. The preconscious was described as a layer between conscious and unconscious thought; its contents could be accessed with a little effort.
One key factor in the operation of the unconscious is 'repression'. Freud believed that many people repress painful memories deep into their unconscious mind.
Freud hoped his model was universally valid and so turned to ancient mythology and ethnography for comparative material. Freud named his new theory the Oedipus complex after the famous Greek tragedy "Oedipus Rex" by Sophocles. "I found in myself a constant love for my mother, and jealousy of my father. I now consider this to be a universal event in childhood." Freud said. Freud sought to anchor this pattern of development in the dynamics of the mind. Each stage is a progression into adult sexual maturity, characterized by a strong ego and the ability to delay gratification (cf. "Three essays on the theory of Sexuality"). 
He used the Oedipus conflict to point out how much he believed that people desire incest and must repress that desire. The Oedipus conflict was described as a state of psychosexual development and awareness. 
Freud originally thought child sexual abuse was a general explanation for the origin of neuroses, but he abandoned this so-called "seduction theory". He noted finding many cases in which apparent memories of childhood sexual abuse were based more on imagination than on real events. 
During the late 1890s Freud, who never abandoned his belief in the sexual cause of neuroses, began to emphasize fantasies built around the Oedipus complex as the primary cause of hysteria and other neurotic symptoms. Despite this change in his explanatory model, Freud always recognized that some neurotics had in fact been sexually abused by their fathers. He explicitly discussed several patients whom he knew to have been abused.
Freud also believed that the libido developed in individuals by changing its object, a process called "sublimation". He argued that humans are born "polymorphously perverse", meaning that any number of objects could be a source of pleasure. He further argued that, as humans develop, they become fixated on different and specific objects through their stages of development – first in the oral stage (exemplified by an infant's pleasure in nursing), then in the anal stage (exemplified by a toddler's pleasure in evacuating his or her bowels), then in the phallic stage. 
Freud argued that children then passed through a stage in which they fixated on the mother as a sexual object (known as the Oedipus Complex) but that the child eventually overcame and repressed this desire because of its taboo nature. The repressive or dormant latency stage of psychosexual development comes before the sexually mature genital stage of psychosexual development.
In his later work, Freud proposed that the human psyche could be divided into three parts: Id, ego, and super-ego. Freud discussed this model in the 1920 essay "Beyond the Pleasure Principle", and fully elaborated upon it in "The Ego and the Id" (1923). The Id is the impulsive, child-like portion of the psyche that operates on the "pleasure principle" and only takes into account what it wants and disregards all consequences. 
The term "Ego" entered the English language in the late 18th century. "Ego" is Latin for 'I'. It attempts to balance the desires of the Id with reality. It tries to act ways that will bring benefit in the long term, rather than bring grief.
The term "Id" ('the It' or 'the Thing') represents the primitive urges to possess, conquer, dominate and achieve pleasure. It can be seen very clearly in young children, who have not yet learnt to mask their feelings.
The Super-ego is the moral component of the psyche, which makes a clear distinction between right and wrong, and makes no allowance for special circumstances.
The rational Ego attempts to get a balance between the impractical hedonism of the Id and the equally impractical moralism of the Super-ego; it is the part of the psyche that is usually reflected most directly in a person's actions. 
When overburdened or threatened by its tasks, the Ego may employ defense mechanisms including denial, repression, and displacement. The theory of ego defense mechanisms has received empirical validation, and the nature of repression, in particular, became one of the more fiercely debated areas of psychology in the 1990s.
Freud believed that humans were driven by two conflicting central desires: the life drive which is called "Eros" (survival, propagation, hunger, thirst, and sex) and the death drive (Thanatos). 
Freud recognized the death drive only in his later years and developed his theory of it in "Beyond the Pleasure Principle".
Freud acknowledged the tendency for the unconscious to repeat unpleasurable experiences in order to desensitize, or deaden, the body. This compulsion to repeat unpleasurable experiences explains why traumatic nightmares occur in dreams, as nightmares seem to contradict Freud's earlier conception of dreams purely as a site of pleasure, fantasy, and desire. 
On the one hand, the life drives promote survival by avoiding extreme unpleasure and any threat to life. On the other hand, the death drive functions simultaneously toward extreme pleasure, which leads to death. Freud addressed the conceptual dualities of pleasure and unpleasure, as well as sex/life and death, in his discussions on masochism and sadomasochism. The tension between life drive and death drive represented a revolution in his manner of thinking.
There are four main charges against the orthodox view of Freud. They are:
Anthony Clare, psychiatrist and broadcaster, described Freud as a "ruthless and devious charlatan", and that "many of the foundations stones of psychoanalysis are phoney".

</doc>
<doc id="18906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18906" title="Snack">
Snack

A snack is a small amount of food eaten between meals. It can be any kind of food that you do not eat in large amount. People eat snacks if they are hungry between meals. For example, eating potato chips after lunch but before dinner is eating a snack. Other foods that can be eaten as snacks are fruit, candy, muffins, ice cream, and popcorn.

</doc>
<doc id="18907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18907" title="Providence, Rhode Island">
Providence, Rhode Island

Providence is the capital and most populous city of Rhode Island. It was one of the first cities established in the United States. It is located in Providence County. It is the third largest city in the New England region. In the 2010 census, the city proper population was 178,042. The area is the 37th largest metropolitan population in the country, with an estimated MSA population of 1,600,856. This is more people than the population of Rhode Island due to the area reaching into southern Massachusetts. Providence is at the mouth of the Providence River, at the head of Narragansett Bay. The city's small footprint is crisscrossed by streets at odd angles and has a rapidly changing distribution of residents.
Providence was founded in 1636 by Roger Williams, a religious exile from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He named the area in honor of "God's merciful Providence" which he believed was responsible for revealing such a haven for him and his followers to settle. The official name of the state includes the name of the city, "Rhode Island and Providence Plantations". After being one of the first cities in the country to industrialize, Providence became noted for its jewelry and silverware industry. Today, the City of Providence is home to eight hospitals and seven institutions of higher learning, which has shifted the city's economy into service industries, although it still retains significant manufacturing activity.
From colonial times to the mid-19th century, the Rhode Island General Assembly rotated meetings between the state's five county court houses. After 1853 the state legislature stopped meeting at the Kent, Washington and Bristol county courthouses, but continued to alternate its sessions between Providence State House and the Newport State House in Newport. Early in the 20th century, Providence became the only capital of the state.
I-95 runs from north to south through Providence. I-195 connects the city to eastern Rhode Island and southeastern Massachusetts, including New Bedford, Massachusetts, and Cape Cod. I-295 encircles Providence while RI 146 provides a direct connection with Worcester, Massachusetts. The city's Iway project is moving I-195 to free up land and to reunify the Jewelry District with Downcity Providence. I-195 currently separates these two neighborhoods. The project is estimated to cost $446 million and be completed in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="18908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18908" title="Columbia, South Carolina">
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia is the capital and largest city of the U.S. state of South Carolina. As of the 2010 Census, it had an urban population of 549,777. It is the county seat of Richland County, but a small portion of the city is in Lexington County. It is home to the University of South Carolina.
Just east of the city is Fort Jackson, the U.S. Army's largest and most active initial entry training installation,
Columbia is on the fall line from the Appalachian Mountains. The fall line is the spot where boats cannot travel any farther upstream, and is also the spot farthest downstream where falling water can usefully power a mill.
The state capital was Charleston on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean. In 1786, the legislature decided to move the capital to the center of the state, and the site of Columbia was chosen for its location on the river just 13 miles (21 km) northwest of South Carolina's geographic center. The State Legislature first met there in 1790. After remaining under the direct government of the legislature for the first two decades of its existence, Columbia was incorporated as a village in 1805 and then as a city in 1854. Columbia received a large stimulus to development when it was connected in a direct water route to Charleston, by the Santee Canal. This canal connected the Santee and Cooper Rivers in a 22-mile (35 km) section. It was first chartered in 1786 and completed in 1800, making it one of the earliest canals in the United States. With increased railroad traffic, it ceased operation around 1850.
Columbia was one of the first planned cities in the United States. It is known for its wide streets.
On February 17, 1865, during the Civil War, a fire destroyed much of Columbia was destroyed while being occupied by Union troops under the command of General William Tecumseh Sherman.
The 20th century saw Columbia emerge as a regional textile manufacturing center. In the 1920s, Columbia businessmen constructed a large dam on the Saluda River to make hydroelectric power. The dam, using the native red clay soil and bedrock, was the largest earthen dam in the world when it was completed in 1930. Lake Murray which was formed by the dam is 41 miles (66 km) long, and 14 miles (23 km) wide at its widest point. At the time when the lake was finished, it was the world's largest man-made reservoir. The company that built the dam grew to become SCANA Corporation, one of Columbia's largest employers.
The city of Columbia has recently accomplished a number of redevelopment projects and has several more planned. The historic Congaree Vista, a district running from the central business district toward the Congaree river, features a number of historic buildings that have been rehabilitated.
The Central Midlands Regional Transit Authority (CMRTA), operates mass transit in the greater Columbia area including Cayce, West Columbia, Forest Acres, Arcadia Lakes, Springdale, and the St. Andrews area. CMRTA operates express shuttles, as well as bus service serving Columbia and its immediate suburbs. The authority was established in October 2002 after SCANA released ownership of public transportation back to the City of Columbia. Since 2003, CMRTA provides transportation for more than 2 million passengers, has expanded route services, and introduced 43 new ADA accessible buses offering a safer, more comfortable means of transportation. CMRTA has also added 10 natural gas powered buses to the fleet.
The Central Midlands Council of Governments is in the process of investigating the potential for rail transit in the region. Routes into downtown Columbia originating from Camden, Newberry, and Batesburg-Leesville are in consideration, as is a potential line between Columbia and Charlotte connecting the two mainlines of the future Southeastern High Speed Rail Corridor.
Columbia's central location between the population centers of South Carolina has made it a transportation focal point with three interstate highways and one interstate spur.
The city and its surroundings are served by Columbia Metropolitan Airport (IATA:CAE; ICAO:KCAE). The city is served daily by Amtrak and Greyhound Lines buses.
Columbia has the main campus of the University of South Carolina, which was chartered in 1801 as South Carolina College and in 1906 as the University of South Carolina. The university has 350 degree programs and enrolls more than 27,500 students throughout 15 degree-granting colleges and schools. It is an urban university in downtown Columbia, just south of the Capitol.
Other colleges are: Allen University, Benedict College, Columbia College, Columbia International University, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary and Midlands Technical College.

</doc>
<doc id="18909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18909" title="Pierre, South Dakota">
Pierre, South Dakota

Pierre (pronounced "peer") is the capital city of South Dakota, a state of the United States of America. As of the 2010 census, it had a population of 13,646. Pierre is the county seat of Hughes County. Started in 1880 on the Missouri River across from Fort Pierre, Pierre has been the state capital since 1889.
Pierre lies on rough river bluffs overlooking the Missouri River. It is a few miles away from Lake Oahe, one of the largest man made lakes in the world and a very popular fishing destination.
Two airlines serving Pierre Regional Airport provide non-stop flights to Denver and Minneapolis-St. Paul.
The nearest interstate highway is Interstate 90, which is about 34 miles south of Pierre via U.S. Highway 83. Pierre is one of only four state capitals not served by an interstate highway.

</doc>
<doc id="18910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18910" title="Charleston, West Virginia">
Charleston, West Virginia

Charleston is the capital city of West Virginia, a state of the United States of America. It is where the Elk and Kanawha Rivers join in Kanawha County. As of the 2000 census, Charleston has 53,421 people living in it, which makes it the largest city in the state. It is the county seat of Kanawha County.

</doc>
<doc id="18912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18912" title="Madison, Wisconsin">
Madison, Wisconsin

Madison is the capital city of Wisconsin, a state in the United States of America. As of the 2000 census, it has a population (people living in it) of 221,735, making it the second largest city in Wisconsin. It is the county seat of Dane County. Madison is also home to the University of Wisconsin.

</doc>
<doc id="18913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18913" title="Cheyenne, Wyoming">
Cheyenne, Wyoming

Cheyenne is the capital and largest city of Wyoming, a state of the United States of America. As of September 2005, it had an estimated population (number of people living in it) of 55,362. It is the county seat of Laramie County. Cheyenne was founded in 1867 and the current mayor of Cheyenne is Richard Kaysen. 

</doc>
<doc id="18914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18914" title="Cheyenne">
Cheyenne

Cheyenne might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18929" title="Jeannie Longo">
Jeannie Longo

Jeannie Longo (born October 31, 1958 at St. Gervais-les-Bains in Haute-Savoie, France) is a female French cyclist.
One of the greats of cycling, Jeannie's list of achievements follows:

</doc>
<doc id="18931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18931" title="Buckminster Fuller">
Buckminster Fuller

Richard Buckminster "Bucky" Fuller (July 12, 1895 – July 1, 1983) was an American architect, engineer, author, designer, inventor, systems theorist, and futurist.
Fuller published more than 30 books, inventing and popularizing terms such as "Spaceship Earth", and "Synergetics". 
He also developed numerous inventions, mainly architectural designs. The best known of which is the geodesic dome. Carbon molecules known as fullerenes were later named by scientists for their resemblance to geodesic spheres.

</doc>
<doc id="18935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935" title="Bill Harry">
Bill Harry

Bill Harry is an English author, from Liverpool. He went to college with John Lennon and Stuart Sutcliffe, who were members of The Beatles. They promised to make Liverpool famous with Lennon's music, Sutcliffe's paintings and Harry's writing. They did not get far together, but each member later became well-known.
Harry founded "Mersey Beat", a newspaper about the local music scene in Liverpool, in 1961. He was the first person to write news articles about the Beatles.
Over the years, Harry has been on over four hundred television and radio shows in Britain, America, Europe and Asia. Shows he has been on include "Good Morning", "Good Morning America", BBC News, Sky News, CNN, ITV and many television documentaries and movies about the Beatles. The British Council had him represent them for their Beatles exhibitions in Hong Kong. Harry has also been a guest at Beatles conventions in Britain, Europe and America.
Harry moved to London in 1966, when he was a music journalist for "Weekend Magazine", and columnist for the Fleetway magazines "Marilyn" and "Valentine". 
He was given an award by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors for everything he has done for the music business in his lifetime.
In London, Harry worked with many entertainers. His job as their publicist was to deal with the media.

</doc>
<doc id="18941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18941" title="Category:Basic English 850 words">
Category:Basic English 850 words

This is a page with . See also the .

</doc>
<doc id="18949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949" title="Paul Bremer">
Paul Bremer

Lewis Paul Bremer III is an American author and politician. He was born on September 30, 1941. He was named "Director of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance" on May 6 for Iraq in 2003, after the war..
Bremer was born in Hartford, Connecticut. He grew up in New Canaan, Connecticut. He went to school at Phillips Academy and graduated in 1959. Then he went to Yale University. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1963. In 1996, he received a masters degree from Harvard University. His degree was in business. He also received a degree in Paris.
In 1967, he joined the United States foreign service. At first he worked in Kabul, Afghanistan. He also worked in Blantyre, Malawi from 1968 to 1971. He worked for the United States State Department for 23 years. During that time, he worked for six different Secretaries of State, including Alexander Haig. A Secretary of State is the top government official in the U.S. State Department. A secretary of state is appointed by the United States President. He also worked as a deputy chief at an American embassy in the country of Norway. A deputy chief is a person in charge at the embassy.
In 1983, President Ronald Reagan appointed Bremer to the position of Ambassador to the Netherlands. He also became "Ambassador at Large for Counter Terrorism." 
Bremer retired in 1989. Then he spent the next 15 years working in private (non-government) companies. One of the companies he worked for was Kissinger Associates (a company that was run by someone who used to be a Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger). He also served as a board member for several corporations. A board member is someone who makes big or strategic decisions on how a company should operate. Mr. Bremer has served on the board for corporations such as Air Products and Chemicals Incorporated, Akzo Nobel NV (a Dutch company), and Marsh Crisis Consulting Company. 
Bremer speaks many languages besides English. He speaks Arabic, French, Dutch, Norwegian, Persian, German, and Spanish.
Bremer is married to named Frances Winfield. They were married in 1966. They have two adult children and two grandchildren. 
After he worked in Iraq, Bremer wrote a book. The title of the book is "My Year in Iraq: The Struggle to Build a Future of Hope". The book was published in January 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="18958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958" title="1770s">
1770s


</doc>
<doc id="18959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18959" title="1530s">
1530s


</doc>
<doc id="18961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18961" title="William P. Frye">
William P. Frye

William Pierce Frye (September 2, 1830–August 8, 1911) was a United States politician from Maine. He served in both the United States Senate and House of Representatives.

</doc>
<doc id="18964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18964" title="Headache">
Headache

A headache is when your head hurts. It is not when you hit your head with something and made it hurt that way, but when your head hurts from inside.
A headache can be caused by one of several things, which are listed here:
The 2nd Edition of the International Headache Classification (ICHD-2) defines more than 220 different types of headaches in three categories:
A headache can also be used as a figure of speech, to describe something that is very difficult to do.
Many headaches can be relieved with analgesics like aspirin.
In many cases headaches can be relieved naturally. Many methods such as massaging the temples near the eye, exercising your eyes ( blinking, palming,) and walking can all help relieve the tension of headaches. Maintaining a healthy diet, with rich proteins and iron, can keep your brain awake and healthy. One of the main factors is drinking plenty of water. These natural techniques tend to give you long-term relief whilst medication can often give you short term relief.
There are many medicines which can treat mild headaches, such as Paracetamol, Co-codamol, and Ibuprofen; but you should always consult your doctor or pharmacist before taking any.

</doc>
<doc id="18965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18965" title="Fever">
Fever

A fever is when a person's body temperature is hotter than 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 Fahrenheit). Normal body temperature for humans varies based on a variety of factors, including age and level of physical activity. It is typically cited as 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 F), but naturally varies from person to person by at least .5 degrees Celsius. The actual measurement of body temperature will vary based on the location of the measurement. For a temperature taken from under the tongue, the measurement may be lower. Rectal temperatures will read about 0.3 C (0.55 F) higher, and armpit temperatures will read about the same amount lower.
When people are ill, their body's immune system fights the disease, and so the body temperature rises. Fever is a defensive measure of the body against the germs: the life cycles of the germs are disrupted when the body temperature rises.
About 38 °C (100.4 F) degrees is called a low-grade fever, and above 39 °C (103 F) degrees is a high-grade fever.
Children usually have a higher fever than adults; their immune system is less mature. Infants have the highest normal temperature, which decreases as people age. Some animals, especially small ones like rabbits and cats, also have a higher normal temperature than humans.
Sometimes, high-grade fever can be a medical emergency. At or above 42 °C (107.6 F) organs start taking damage that may not be repairable. While most fevers are caused by Infection, whether bacterial or viral, some fevers can be caused by cancers, including leukemia, lymphoma, and renal cell carcinoma.

</doc>
<doc id="18967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18967" title="Peoria, Illinois">
Peoria, Illinois

Peoria is a city on the Illinois River in the U.S. state of Illinois. In the 2000 census, Peoria had more than 110,000 people living in it. It is the home of the Peoria Rivermen ice hockey team. One of Peoria's largest businesses is Caterpillar, a company that makes bulldozers, mining trucks, and other kinds of tractors.
Many people drive in and out of Peoria on Interstate 74. People also drive around Peoria on Interstate 474. Peoria is 157 miles (257 kilometers) southwest of Chicago, Illinois.
Peoria has become famous as a representation of the average American city because of its demographics and its perceived mainstream Midwestern culture. On the Vaudeville circuit, it was said that if an act would succeed in Peoria, it would work anywhere. The question "Will it play in Peoria?" has now become a metaphor for whether something appeals to the American mainstream public.

</doc>
<doc id="18969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18969" title="Sedative">
Sedative

A sleeping pill (people also call it sedative) is a drug that people take to help them sleep. It calms them, and makes them very relaxed. 
There are different kinds of sedatives:
Some sedatives can act very fast, usually in 10-15 minutes. Those who consider taking sedatives should talk with their doctor, who can give them the sedatives which are best for them.
Most sedatives are highly addictive, so people need a prescription from their doctor to get sedatives.
If they take sleeping pills for a longer time, they can get addicted. Getting rid of the addiction is very hard to do. Addiction means that people who take the drug cannot stop taking it, without bad consequences (as described below). It's like people who want to stop smoking, but who cannot.
People who have taken sedatives may seem dull, and sleepy. Since sleeping pills act on their ability to react, those who have taken such pills should not do the following:
Some people are addicted to sedatives. When they stop taking the sedatives, they may experience the following
Some addictions can also be psychological; when the users stop taking the drug, they may feel depressed.

</doc>
<doc id="18971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18971" title="Epilepsy">
Epilepsy

Epilepsy is a chronic condition of the brain. It is characterized by seizures that do not seem to have an obvious cause. To the outside viewer, these seizures show as episodes of heavy shaking. Depending on the seizure, the shaking may be short and difficult to detect or it may be longer.
People with epilepsy are sometimes called "epileptic", but it is the fit or seizure that is "epileptic". 
Many people have died from seizures.
There are many different forms of seizures, and there are also many different forms of epilepsy. Most forms of epilepsy cannot be cured. In most cases, drugs can make life easier for those suffering from it. In very few cases, (which are difficult treat), surgery may help. In some cases, only eating special things (called a diet) may help. A special diet has been developed; it is called Ketogenic diet. When it was developed, it was mainly used to treat certain children with epilepsy, before good drugs became available. Today, it is used to treat certain cases where drugs do not seem to help. 
Certain forms of the disease disappear after a time, they do for example only occur in childhood. Epilepsy is not "one" condition. Rather, it stands for a number of health problems that all show in the same ways.
The condition is very common; about one percent of people worldwide (65 million) have epilepsy. Nearly eighty percent of all cases occur in developing countries. Epilepsy becomes more common as people age. In the developed world, onset of new cases occurs most frequently in infants and the elderly. In the developing world this is in older children and young adults. Between five and ten percent of all people will have an unprovoked seizure by the age of eighty. The chance of having a second seizure is between forty and fifty percent.
The condition has many forms, but generally the following is true:
The condition is very common, and has been studied a lot. There are drugs for many forms of epilepsy that make life better for those affected. Doctors only say someone has epilepsy, if that person has had at least two seizures, for which the immediate cause cannot be seen. There are also seizures which are not caused by epilepsy.
In most cases, epilepsy is caused by scars in the brain. Some forms of the condition are caused by genetic disorders, which may be passed on from the parents to the children. Very often, the actual cause for an epileptic seizure is lack of sleep, too much alcohol, or other things that cause stress.
Many countries in the world say there are special rules for people who have epilepsy. They need to be without a seizure for some time before they may drive a car. They also need to take drugs to treat their illness. In many countries, such people may not drive buses, taxis or trucks.
People having an epileptic seizure face a number of problems. The most common ones are:
In many cases, risky behaviour can provoke seizures. Such risk factors include
In many cases,a person who is able to cope with stress, who sleeps enough, and who does not drink too much can reduce the risk of having a seizure.

</doc>
<doc id="18972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18972" title="Trout">
Trout

A trout is a kind of teleost fish that belongs to the Salmoninae subfamily of the Salmonidae family. There are many different kinds of trout. They belong to the same family as the salmon. 
Most trouts are fresh water fish. They live in clear streams, rivers and lakes in America, Europe, and Asia. 
To distinguish a trout from other species, look for a second dorsal fin (or adipose fin). Also, look for spots in mature trout and parr marks in the young.

</doc>
<doc id="18973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18973" title="Tijuana">
Tijuana

Tijuana ( or ; ) is a city in Mexico. It is in the north of the country and across the border from California in the United States. It is the largest city in Baja California. Tijuana is well known destination for US Tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="18974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18974" title="Tampa, Florida">
Tampa, Florida

Tampa is a city in Florida, a state of the United States. It has a population of about 340,000 people as of 2008. Tampa is the 53rd largest city in the USA.
Tampa is the home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Tampa Bay Lightning and Tampa Bay Storm.

</doc>
<doc id="18975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18975" title="Diana Krall">
Diana Krall

Diana Krall (born November 16, 1964) is a Canadian jazz singer and pianist from Nanaimo, British Columbia.
Krall began to play the piano when she was four years old. She began to play in restaurants when she was 15. When she was 17, she won a Vancouver Jazz Festival scholarship (student money award) to study music at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. She later moved to Los Angeles to study with Jimmy Rowles. In 1990, she moved to New York City.
Krall's 1996 album "All For You," was a tribute (way to honour someone) to the Nat King Cole trio. It was on the "Billboard" jazz charts for 70 weeks. The album was considered for a Grammy Award. She won a Grammy in 1999 for "Best Jazz Musician of the Year". Her 2001 album "The Look of Love" was #1 in Canada. It also won the Juno Award as Canadian album of the year. Her 2002 album "Live in Paris" won the Grammy for Best Vocal Jazz Record. Also in 2002, Krall won the Juno for Canadian artist of the year. Her version of the Tom Waits song "Temptation" made #1 on the World Jazz Charts in 2004.
Krall married British musician Elvis Costello in December 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="18985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18985" title="Juno Award">
Juno Award

The Juno Awards are awards given to Canadian musical artists and bands, similar to the United States' Grammy Awards. The Juno awards were first presented in 1970. 
The categories for the Juno Awards are:

</doc>
<doc id="18986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18986" title="Half-Life 2">
Half-Life 2

Half-Life 2 is a first person shooter video game created by the company Valve Corporation and released in 2004. This game is the sequel to the original Half-Life video game which came out in 1998. It is sold through the "Steam" sales system also developed by Valve. (Steam is a gaming platform where all games made by Valve can be played.) It is also available in The Orange Box, along with and (sequels to Half-Life 2), Portal, and Team Fortress 2. is currently in development. Half Life 2 is based on a game engine called Source. There have been many other Source-based games, such as Portal, Team Fortress 2, and .
Half-Life was a very popular video game, and Half-Life 2 was also very popular. Many reviewers believe Half-Life 2 is better than Half-Life and one of the best games ever made. It took six years to create Half-Life 2 (from 1998 to 2004). It was supposed to be released in 2003, but it was not ready. Many fans were very angry and said Valve lied to them. However, it did release the next year (2004). It had much better graphics than Half-Life. It also had more complicated non-player characters and more of a story.
In Half-Life 2, the player is Gordon Freeman (the same character as in Half-Life). It begins about 10 or 20 years after Half-Life. The Combine, a group of evil aliens, took over Earth and made humans their slaves. Gordon Freeman wakes up on a train in a place named City 17. He finds the resistance, some humans who fight the Combine. In the game, he must help them and fight with them. The game ends with Gordon Freeman stopping Doctor Breen, the evil human who is helping the Combine.
There are many important characters in this game other than Gordon Freeman. Some are Eli Vance, who worked at Black Mesa with Gordon Freeman before the Combine came. He is part of the resistance. Alyx Vance is Eli's daughter. She travels with Gordon in part of the game. Doctor Mossman also worked at Black Mesa. She works with the resistance, but is also a traitor who helps Doctor Breen. Barney Calhoun was a guard at Black Mesa. Now he leads the resistance.

</doc>
<doc id="18987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18987" title="The Texas Chainsaw Massacre">
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre

The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is a 1974 American horror movie, based on real events. It was directed by Tobe Hooper and stars Marilyn Burns.
It was followed by several sequels and a 2003 remake from New Line Cinema.

</doc>
<doc id="18988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18988" title="Encryption">
Encryption

Encryption allows information to be hidden so that it cannot be read without special knowledge (such as a password). This is done with a secret code or cypher. The hidden information is said to be encrypted.
Decryption is a way to change encrypted information back into plaintext. This is the decrypted form. The study of encryption is called cryptography. Cryptanalysis can be done by hand if the cypher is simple. Complex cyphers need a computer to search for possible keys. Decryption is a field of computer science and mathematics that looks at how difficult it is to break a cypher.
A simple kind of encryption for words is ROT13. In ROT13, letters of the alphabet are changed with each other using a simple pattern. For example, "A" changes to "N", "B" changes to "O", "C" changes to "P", and so on. Each letter is "rotated" by 13 spaces. Using the ROT13 cipher, the words "Simple English Wikipedia" becomes "Fvzcyr Ratyvfu Jvxvcrqvn". The ROT13 cipher is very easy to decrypt. Because there are 26 letters in the English alphabet, if a letter is rotated two times by 13 letters each time, the original letter will be obtained. So applying the ROT13 cipher a second time brings back the original text. When he communicated with his army, Julius Caesar sometimes used what is known as Caesar cipher today. This cipher works by shifting the position of letters: each letter is rotated by 3 positions.
Most kinds of encryption are made more complex so cryptanalysis will be difficult. Some are made only for text. Others are made for binary computer files like pictures and music. Today, many people use the asymmetric encryption system called RSA. Any computer file can be encrypted with RSA. AES is a common symmetric algorithm.
Most types of encryption can theoretically be cracked: an enemy might be able to decrypt a message without knowing the password, if he has clever mathematicians, powerful computers and lots of time. The one-time pad is special because, if it is used correctly, it is impossible to crack. There are three rules that must be followed:
If these three rules are obeyed, then it is impossible to read the secret message without knowing the secret key. For this reason, during the Cold War, embassies and large military units often used one-time pads to communicate secretly with their governments. They had little books ("pads") filled with random letters or random numbers. Each page from the pad could only be used once: this is why it is called a "one-time pad".
Encryption is often used on the Internet, as many web sites use it to protect private information. On the Internet, several encryption protocols are used, such as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), IPsec, and SSH. They use the RSA encryption system and others. The protocol for protected web browsing is called HTTPS.
URL encryption mostly uses the MD5 Algorithm. Various algorithms are used in the internet market depending upon the need.

</doc>
<doc id="18989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18989" title="Gelsenkirchen">
Gelsenkirchen

Gelsenkirchen is a city in Germany in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is about north of Cologne in the so called Ruhr Area.
About 269,000 people live there. In the past it was dominated by coal mining and steel industry. The city is famous for its football (soccer) club FC Schalke 04.

</doc>
<doc id="18990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18990" title="Pseudoscience">
Pseudoscience

Pseudoscience ("false science") is an idea that looks like science, but is not. Pseudoscience may fail one or more parts of science. Sometimes, pseudoscience are ideas that are thought to be wrong.
Essentially, pseudoscience is any idea about how nature works that is generally not accepted as true by the mainstream scientific community. An idea can be considered pseudoscientific for any number of reasons. The word pseudoscience literally means "false science". Creationism and astrology are both well known pseudosciences.
Pseudoscience is often considered immoral by scientists not because its claims are undemonstrated, but because they are sometimes presented as facts and/or real. An average person might not recognize the differences in credibility between a television program about psychics supposedly reading people's thoughts versus one that presents evidence for and against global warming.
Ideas (more properly "hypotheses") about how nature works may be considered pseudoscientific for many reasons. Sometimes, the hypothesis is just simply wrong, and can be demonstrated to be wrong. An example of this is the belief that the Earth is flat, or the belief that human female skeletons have one more rib than men do. Ideas such as these are considered pseudoscientific because they are just simply wrong.
Sometimes, scientists agree that a certain idea may be true, but could never be demonstrated to be true, even in principle. For example, some people believe that the Earth and the universe came into existence last Thursday. They believe that when the universe came into existence last Thursday, it was created with the "appearance" of being many thousands or even millions of years old. According to these believers, even our memories of two weeks ago are actually just the false memories that came along with the creation of the universe, which took place last Thursday. Such a belief is considered pseudoscientific because it is not falsifiable—scientists cannot even imagine an experiment that could shed light on whether this belief is true or false.
Other types of pseudoscience are considered pseudoscientific because they are based on deception, even though the idea being used is not impossible. Examples are people who claim to have made time travel devices, antigravity devices, or teleporters. Scientists simply do not have the technology to build such things in modern times, even though they may be able to someday.
Some ideas are "arguably" pseudoscientific. This means that some mainstream scientists consider the idea pseudoscientific and some do not. Certain ideas about how the stock market behaves fall into this category.
Pseudoscience is not exactly the same thing as biased research, where the scientist has some bad motive (such as personal gain, fame, or financial profit) for promoting their findings. It is also not the same as an untested hypothesis, which is an idea that scientists cannot test yet because they do not have the money or technology to do so. The theories of quantum gravity are untested hypotheses: scientists can easily imagine experiments to test them, but they just do not quite have the technology to do so at this time.

</doc>
<doc id="18991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18991" title="West Coast">
West Coast

West Coast could mean several places:
It can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19002" title="Nuclear missile">
Nuclear missile

Nuclear missiles are missiles (rockets that land on the earth or hit something in the air, the water, or whatever) with atomic bombs inside. 
In the time of Cold War the USA and the Soviet Union were enemies and thought the other side was going to attack them. To dissuade the other side from attacking, both sides built many nuclear missiles to ensure Mutual assured destruction. This meant a country that attacked would be destroyed. Treaties were made to reduce the numbers of missiles to make everyone safer.

</doc>
<doc id="19007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19007" title="Pituitary gland">
Pituitary gland

The pituitary gland is an important part of the endocrine system. Attached to the hypothalamus, also a gland, it is located at the base of the brain between the eyes. It controls a whole range of vital functions by secreting hormones.
The pituitary gland consists of two parts: the anterior pituitary and the posterior pituitary. It is functionally linked to the hypothalamus by the pituitary stalk (also called the 'infundibulum'). 
The hypothalamus releases factors down the pituitary stalk to the pituitary gland where they cause the release of pituitary hormones. Although the pituitary gland is known as the 'master' endocrine gland, both of the lobes are under the control of the hypothalamus.
Endocrine cells of the anterior pituitary are controlled by regulatory hormones released by neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus.
The gland releases several kinds of hormones.
The endocrine cells of the anterior pituitary are controlled by neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus. The anterior pituitary cells synthesizes and secretes these important endocrine hormones: 
The two gonadotropins;
Here one hormone is produced:
The posterior pituitary is actually an extension of the hypothalamus. Neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamus have axons that go right down into the posterior pituitary. The posterior pituitary stores and secretes the hormones produced by these neurosecretory cells:
Oxytocin is one of the few hormones to create a positive feedback loop. For example, uterine contractions stimulate the release of oxytocin from the posterior pituitary, which, in turn, increases uterine contractions. This positive feedback loop continues throughout birth labour.

</doc>
<doc id="19008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008" title="Miskolc">
Miskolc

Miskolc is the third largest city of Hungary and the capital of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Its population is 178.950.
Miskolc is in the north-eastern part of the country, east from the Bükk mountains, in the valley of the river Sajó and the streams Hejő and Szinva. Its area is 236.68 km².
The first known people who lived in this area are the Celts. The Hungarians came here in the end of the 9th century. The area was named after the Miskóc family who were its owners, and it was first mentioned in 1210. The family lost a war against King Charles I and the king took away their properties.
A castle was built in Diósgyőr (a town near Miskolc; it is now a part of the city) in the 13rd century. It was the favourite castle of King Louis I who lived in the 14th century. 
When Hungary was in a war with the Ottoman Empire, the Ottomans burned down Miskolc in 1544. The Austrians also burned the city down in 1707 because Prince Francis Rákóczi, who started a freedom fight against the Austrians, lived in Miskolc for a while. 
In 1724 Miskolc became the capital of the county. The city developed. In the 18th and 19th centuries the people built many important buildings: schools, churches and a theatre. In the 1786 census (when they count the people) 14.719 people lived in Miskolc and there were 2414 houses.
After the first World War Miskolc became more important, because Hungary had to give Kassa, the other important city of the area, to Slovakia. Miskolc became a centre of iron industry. In 1945 Miskolc and Diósgyőr became one city. In 1949 a university was founded in Miskolc. Lots of people moved to Miskolc because they could find new jobs in the city. In the 1980s more than 200.000 people lived here. It was the second largest city in Hungary (the first was the capital Budapest). Now Miskolc is the third largest, the second is Debrecen.
Since the 1990s the iron industry is less successful and lots of people lost their jobs. 
Miskolc is now an important cultural city and tourists like it too. The theatre holds an opera festival every year. The most beautiful parts of the city are Tapolca (with a famous warm water bath in a cave), Lillafüred (with a hotel which looks like a palace and is called Palace Hotel) and the castle of Diósgyőr.
The Avas is a hill (234 m / 780 ft high). There is a TV tower, an old church (the oldest building in Miskolc) and a large housing estate (high houses with lots of flats) on Avas.
The Downtown is the centre of Miskolc. The most important street is the Széchenyi street which is often called Main street. There are lots of nice old buildigs and lots of shops here.
Diósgyőr has a castle, some factories and housing estates. 
The University of Miskolc is a new university because it was founded in 1949. Most universities in Hungary are older and have old buildings in the downtowns. The University of Miskolc has a whole city part for itself, the buildings of the university and the houses in which the students live are in a lare park.
Lillafüred is a small village outside Miskolc, but it belongs to the city. The Palace Hotel, some caves and a nice waterfall are here.
Tourists like Miskolc-Tapolca because of its famous Cave Bath where people can bathe in warm water inside of a large cave. The houses here are expensive.

</doc>
<doc id="19010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19010" title="Boeing">
Boeing

The Boeing Company ( ) (NYSE: BA) is an American company which makes aircraft and defense items. The company was started in 1916 by William E. Boeing in Seattle, Washington. Boeing has grown to become very big. It bought its main rival, McDonnell Douglas, in 1997. Boeing moved its headquarters from Seattle to Chicago, Illinois in 2001. Boeing is made up of many smaller parts. These parts are called divisions. The divisions are Boeing Commercial Airplanes (BCA); Boeing Defense, Space & Security (BDS); Engineering, Operations & Technology; Boeing Capital; and Boeing Shared Services Group.
Boeing is one of the biggest aircraft manufacturers in the world. It is the second-biggest defense contractor in the world as of 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="19012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19012" title="Uterus">
Uterus

The uterus or womb is the part of the female body in which babies grow for nine months during pregnancy. The uterus is just under the fallopian tubes, between the hips. The plural of uterus is 'uteri'.

</doc>
<doc id="19013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19013" title="Satanism">
Satanism

Satanism is a word that has several different meanings. It can describe different religions and philosophies. 
Sometimes the word "Satanism" is just used to say that the person using it does not like a group, but the group themselves do not think of themselves as Satanists. Used like this, it is just used to say the speaker disapproves of a group. A lot of groups, like Pagans, or even Protestants have in the past been called Satanists by some people.
The word is often used by people who do not know much about or do not like Satanists, who think that Satanism means worshipping an evil being called Satan, and that Satanists want him to win in a war against good represented by "God". This is not true of most Satanists. For them Satan is only a symbol for the freedom to be themselves, also the word satan is used as symbol for man's inner desires and for knowledge. These people like the writings of Anton LaVey and are sometimes called LaVeyan Satanists. There are several modern Satanic groups of different types, but the most well known is the Church of Satan created in 1966 by Anton LaVey who also wrote The Satanic Bible. Even though these types of satanists are atheists, meaning they do not believe in a higher being, they do practice magic. They believe that there is no afterlife so your actions on earth do not matter. 
Other types of Satanist do worship Satan. They are called theistic or traditional Satanists, because they believe their religion is older. They think their religion is similar to that of Witches.

</doc>
<doc id="19020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19020" title="Decatur, Illinois">
Decatur, Illinois

Decatur is a city in the American state of Illinois. In the 2000 census, there were more than 80,000 people living in it. Many people drive in and out of Decatur on Interstate 72. There is a shopping mall in nearby Forsyth, a suburb of Decatur.
Decatur is the county seat of Macon County. Macon County was the home of the young Abraham Lincoln, later U.S. President, for a short time. The place where the Lincoln family built a log cabin and spent the winter of 1829-1830 is now a state park, the "Lincoln Trail Homestead State Park."

</doc>
<doc id="19023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023" title="Elba">
Elba

Elba () is third largest island of Italy, after Sardinia and Sicily. The land area of the island is about 224 square kms. The coastline is about 147 km. The highest mountain is Monte Capanne at 1018 metres (3340 feet). Elba and the other islands (Gorgona, Capraia, Pianosa, Montecristo, Giglio and Giannutri) of the Tuscan Archipelago are protected in the National Park of the Tuscan Archipelago. The French island of Corsica lies about 50 km to the west. Recently,the island has become famous for its wine.
The island is divided into eight communes: Portoferraio, Campo nell'Elba, Capoliveri, Marciana, Marciana Marina, Porto Azzurro, Rio Marina and Rio nell'Elba. The island has a population of about 30 000 people.
The island was well known in to the last century for the iron resources. Mines were created by the Etruscans first and (after 480 BC) the Romans. After the end of the Roman Empire, the island knew barbarians and Saracens. In the early 11th century it became a part of the Republic of Pisa. In 1398, was sold to the Visconti family of Milan. After a few years, the island was acquired by the Appiani, Lords of Piombino, who kept it for two centuries. In 1546 part of the island was controlled by Cosimo I de' Medici. He fortified Portoferraio and renamed it "Cosmopoli". In 1577, the rest of the island was returned to the Appiani. In 1603 Philip II of Spain captured Porto Azzurro and built two fortresses there.
In 1802 the island became a part of France. Following the Treaty of Fontainebleau, French emperor Napoleon I was exiled to Elba after his forced abdication in 1814 and arrived at Portoferraio on May 3, 1814 to begin his exile there. He was allowed to keep a personal guard of six hundred men. Napoleon stayed on Elba for 300 days before he escaped and returned to France on February 26 for the Hundred Days. Thanks to Napoleon Elba is well-known around the world. In the Congress of Vienna the island was given to the Grand Duchy of Tuscany. In 1860 it became part of the new unified Kingdom of Italy.
French troops landed on Elba on June 17 1944, freeing the island from the Germans in World War II.
There is an airport on the island, the "Airport Marina di Campo", that can connect the island with the big cities of: Friedrichshafen, Munchen and Zürich.

</doc>
<doc id="19025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19025" title="1799">
1799


</doc>
<doc id="19026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19026" title="Saint Helena (disambiguation)">
Saint Helena (disambiguation)

Saint Helena can mean:
See also: St Helens; St. Helena Parish, Louisiana

</doc>
<doc id="19029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19029" title="1162">
1162


</doc>
<doc id="19030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19030" title="1704">
1704


</doc>
<doc id="19031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19031" title="North Africa">
North Africa

North Africa is the Northern part of Africa. It is usually made up of these countries:
Most of north Africa is desert, which means it is very dry and does not rain very much. The predominant ethnic groups are Arabs and Moors (mixed Africans and Arabs). The biggest religion is Islam, meaning that most of the people are Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="19033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19033" title="Sanskrit">
Sanskrit

Sanskrit is an ancient Indian language. It is a sacred language of Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism, as well as the origin of most of the Indian languages, in Indo Aryan as well as Malayalam. Today, about 14,000 people in India use it as their daily language. It is one of the 22 official languages of India, and is an official language of the state of Uttarakhand.
Sanskrit is a standardized dialect of Old Indo-Aryan. Its linguistic ancestry can be traced back to Proto-Indo-European. The Indo-Aryan migration theory proposes that the Indo-Aryans migrated from the Central Asian steppes into South Asia during the early part of the 2nd millennium BC, bringing with them the Indo-Aryan languages. The main script used to write Sanskrit is Devanāgarī, though it can be written in various scripts of Indian languages. 
William Jones, who was working as a judge in India at the time, was studying Sanskrit when he realized how similar Sanskrit was to Latin and Greek. It was then when he would discover the relationship among the Indo-European languages. 
Sanskrit literature includes poetry and drama. There is also scientific, technical, philosophical and religious texts. Sanskrit continues to be widely used as a ceremonial language in Hindu religious rituals and Buddhist practice in the form of hymns and chants. 

</doc>
<doc id="19054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19054" title="Dementia">
Dementia

Dementia is a group of diseases with symptoms, which affect the way people think and interact with each other. It can often be linked to a disease or damage done to the brain. Very often, short-time memory, mind, speech and motor skills are affected. Certain forms of dementia cause a change in the personality of the sufferer. A person suffering from dementia will lose certain skills and knowledge they already had. This is the main difference to other conditions affecting the mind. People who suffer from learning problems, or lower intelligence will never acquire certain skills, people suffering from dementia will lose skills they have acquired. Dementia is more common in older people. Certain forms of dementia can be treated, to some extent. The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, which accounts for between 50 and 60 percent of all cases. Other types include vascular dementia and lewy body dementia.
Famous people who suffered from dementia include Augusto Pinochet, the Chilean leader, and also Rosa Parks, the civil rights activist.
People who see the following worsen may suffer from dementia:
Behavioral changes may include: 
Some types dementia are reversible. This means the damage can be undone. Other types are irreversible. This means that they cannot be undone. Irreversible dementia is usually caused by an incurable disease, such as Alzheimer's disease. 
Reversible causes of dementia also include diffuse axonal injury after injuries to the head or the brain, known medically as Traumatic brain injury.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease causes a dementia that gets worse quickly, over weeks or months, and is caused by prions. On the other hand, other forms like encephalopathy or delirium may develop relatively slowly, over the years.
The two leading causes of dementia are Alzheimer's disease and Multi-infarct disease. Glioma related tumors are another kmown cause. Alcohol dementia, is sometimes associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, and is caused by long-term or uncontrolled, heavy alcohol abuse.
Possible metabolic causes are such as liver failure or kidney failure; and chronic subdural hematoma. Possible other causes may include brain infection by illnesses like meningitis leading in cases to viral encephalitis drug toxicity (e.g. anticonvulsant drugs). 

</doc>
<doc id="19056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19056" title="Elasticity (physics)">
Elasticity (physics)

Something that is elastic can be stretched or deformed (changed) and returned to its original form, like a rubber band. It tries to come back to its first shape. The "strain" is how much the shape is changed.
This idea was first suggested by Robert Hooke in 1675.

</doc>
<doc id="19058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19058" title="Harmonica">
Harmonica

A harmonica is small musical instrument that is played with the mouth by blowing into holes in its side. Harmonicas are cheap and easy to play. Harmonicas produce their musical sounds from the vibrations of reeds in the harmonica's metal case. Harmonicas are used in blues music, folk music, rock and roll music, and pop music. A special type of harmonica, the chromatic harmonica, is used in jazz and classical music. Harmonicas are made in several different keys: G, A♭, A, B♭, B, C, D♭, D, E♭, E, F, and F♯. Each key can play a different range of notes.
Harmonicas are played by blowing or sucking air into one side. On this side, there are many holes. Each hole has a different note. Different notes are played when you blow or suck air.
Another type of harmonica is the chromatic harmonica. More songs can be played on it than a regular harmonica, because chromatic harmonicas can play more different notes. Chromatic harmonicas have a button which moves a sliding bar. By pressing the button, the player can play a larger range of notes. 
The harmonica is called many different names, such as: mouth organ, mouth harp, Hobo Harp, French harp, Reckless Tram, harpoon, tin sandwich, blues harp, Mississippi saxophone, or simply harp.

</doc>
<doc id="19060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19060" title="Straits of Florida">
Straits of Florida

The Straits of Florida (or Florida Straits) is a strait between the Florida Keys and Cuba.

</doc>
<doc id="19064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19064" title="Electron microscope">
Electron microscope

An electron microscope is a scientific instrument which uses a beam of electrons to examine objects on a very fine scale. In an optical microscope, the wavelength of light limits the maximum magnification that is possible. As electrons have a smaller wavelength, they can achieve a higher magnification, and can see very small objects - typically around 1,000 times smaller than those seen in an optical microscope. The outline of objects, as revealed by the flow of electrons, is changed into a picture using visible light for people to see.
A beam of electrons is sent towards the specimen - some electrons are reflected, while some pass through. Those that pass through are detected and used to form an image of the specimen at a magnification of about 500,000 times. This microscope is more powerful than a light microscope.
Similar to a Transmission Electron Microscope, but the reflected electrons are detected. By measuring the reflected electrons, some information about the surface of the specimen can be gathered.
A narrow beam of electrons is moved across the specimen and a picture is built up piece by piece by detecting how the electrons are reflected or absorbed as it moves.
It combines the high magnification of TEM with the better surface detail of SEM. It can be used to perform complex analysis on the specimen, which cannot be done using TEM alone.

</doc>
<doc id="19066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19066" title="Insomnia">
Insomnia

Insomnia is when people cannot sleep. A person with this problem is called an "insomniac". Insomnia can mean a problem with getting to sleep or a problem with staying asleep. Insomnia is a and not a disease or illness.
There are at least three different types of insomnia:
There are many causes of insomnia. Some of them are:
There are drugs available that can help treat the different kinds of insomnia. In some cases, there are also certain herbs that can help. A third way that seems to help is a type of therapy that aims at changing the behaviour of those affected.

</doc>
<doc id="19069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19069" title="Airbus A320 family">
Airbus A320 family

The Airbus A320 family is a family of jet airliners. It only has two rows of seats, which means it is a narrow-body plane. The family is made by Airbus and it is made up of the A318, A319, A320 and A321, as well as the ACJ business jet. The A320 family is made in Toulouse, France, and Hamburg, Germany. Since 2009, a plant in Tianjin in the People's Republic of China has also been making aircraft for Chinese airlines. In June 2012, Airbus said that it would start making some A319, A320, and A321 planes in Mobile, Alabama. The planes in the family can hold up to 220 passengers and they have a range of . The range depends on the model.
The first plane in the A320 family was the A320, which was launched in March 1984. It first flew on 22 February 1987 and the first A320 was delivered in 1988. The family got bigger over time, and there are now three other aircraft in the family: the A321 (first delivered 1994), the A319 (1996) and the A318 (2003). The A320 was the first airliner to have fly-by-wire flight control systems. It was also the first commercial airliner to have side-stick controls. (A side-stick is a small joystick which is used to fly the plane instead of a yoke.)
On 1 December 2010, Airbus announced a new version of the plane, called the A320neo. With the A320neo, new engines will be used (the CFM International LEAP-X and the Pratt & Whitney PW1000G) and some improvements have been made to the outside of the plane. Winglets have also been added, which Airbus calls "Sharklets". The A320neo will use 15% less fuel than the current A320. Virgin America is the A320neo's launch customer. As of 31 December 2011, 1,196 A320neo aircraft have been ordered by 21 airlines, which makes it the fastest-selling commercial aircraft in history.
As of June 2013, 5,635 Airbus A320 family aircraft have been delivered, and 5,443 of these are still being used. As well as this, 4,014 planes are on order. The A320 family's main rivals are the Boeing 737, 717, 757 and the McDonnell Douglas MD-80.
The A320 was the world's first commercial jet to use a small joystick, also called a "sidestick", to fly it instead of a normal yoke (a steering-wheel like device). This matched the new digital 'fly-by-wire' system, the first use of this in a civilian aircraft, which makes the A320 much easier and safer to fly.
The A320 also has a full "glass-cockpit", where most instruments in the cockpit (the front part of the plane where the pilot is) have been replaced by television screens. Most of the technology first used on the A320 has been used in other Airbus aircraft made afterwards. Other manufacturers, like Boeing, have also used much of the technology like a glass-cockpit and fly-by-wire in the Boeing 777.
The A319, A320 and A321 have engines made by two different companies; International Aero Engines (IAE) supply the V2500 and CFM International provide the CFM56. Over 54% of A320s in the air today have CFM engines.
The significantly smaller A318 has either Pratt and Whitney PW6000 engines or CFM56-5. The PW6000 was not as good as expected and this may have reduced the number of sales; several airlines cancelled their orders before the more efficient CFM engine arrived.
The A320 has been shortened to produce the A319 and stretched to produce the A321. Recently it was shortened even more to make the A318. However this version has not sold as well and the only large operator is Frontier Airlines.
These different versions are known as "A320 derivatives". When talking about all of them, they are known as the "A320 family" or "A32x".
Changes in size are done by removing or adding sections of fuselage (the part of the aircraft passengers sit in) and adjusting the power of the engines. Airbus try to keep the airplanes the same where possible, to reduce operating costs.
Pilots only need one licence (called a type rating) to fly all A320 derivatives.
The A320 has been very reliable in service. Many early problems were caused by pilots not being use to the new "glass cockpit" and "fly-by-wire", but these no longer happen. In recent years, the A320 has had a number of problems involving its front undercarriage. The following accidents are some of those which have occurred since 1988:
Seven incidents of nose gear malfunction, including JetBlue Airways Flight 292.
This information comes from: Airbus.

</doc>
<doc id="19070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19070" title="Priest">
Priest

A priest or priestess is a person who is allowed to do religious rites. Their office or position is the priesthood, a word which can also be used for such persons collectively. In most religions and cultures in history there have been priests, although they have a lot of different names, and follow different rules. .
A priest is a member of a church that has been told to look after his (spiritual) community. He is the head of a parish.
To become a Catholic priest, you are required to study Theology. The Orthodox and Protestant Churches also have laymen as clergy.
Catholic priests are not allowed to marry meaning that they have to be celibate. Orthodox priests can be married, but they must not marry after they become a priest. Anglican priests can get married before or during the time they are a priest.
The Catholic Church does not allow women to become priests. However, some Anglican Churches allow women to be priests.
Higher priests are called Bishops and Archbishops in the Anglican Church. John Sentamua and Rowan Williams are the archbishops of York and Canterbury. In some denominations only men can become priests.
The Orthodox Church has a higher priest called a Patriarch. The Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, like the Roman Catholic Church has a Pope, Pope Tawadras.
Many Protestant churches have ministers or pastors instead of priests.
In Japan there are Buddhist priests and nuns, Shinto priests and priestesses as well as clergy in the Christian traditions.

</doc>
<doc id="19072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19072" title="Red Sea">
Red Sea

The Red Sea, also known as the Gulf of Arabia, is a sea between the Arabian Peninsula of Asia in the northeast and Africa in the southwest. It is a part of the Indian Ocean. The Red Sea is about 2200 km long, but its width is less than 330 km. Many ships go through the Red Sea, because the Suez Channel connects the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea and Bab-el-Mandeb at the opposite end is a gate to the Indian Ocean. Ports of the Red Sea are, for example, Suez, Port Sudan, Massawa, Yanbu al-Bahr, Jeddah, Aqaba and Eilat. 
It is named that because it sometimes looks red from the red algae. The water of Red Sea has more salt and is clearer than water of most other seas because almost no rivers run into it. The weather is dry and warm around the Red Sea and for this reason many people from Europe and other parts of the world come for their holiday to the Red Sea. Some of them are divers, who swim under the sea level, to see rich coral reefs and fish. Holiday places, for example, are Sharm el-Sheikh, Eilat or Hurghada. The countries next to the Red Sea are Egypt, Sudan, Eritrea, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Israel.
According to the book of Exodus, God parted it for Moses and the Israelites so they could escape from the Egyptian Army.

</doc>
<doc id="19073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19073" title="List of country calling codes">
List of country calling codes

The following is a list of country calling codes. These are area codes for telephone numbers.
Places in NANPA (North American Numbering Plan Area) have been given area codes as if they were all areas inside one country.
0

</doc>
<doc id="19075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19075" title="Charles Lindbergh">
Charles Lindbergh

Charles Augustus Lindbergh (February 4, 1902 – August 26, 1974), known as "Lucky Lindy" and "The Lone Eagle", was a pioneering United States airplane pilot. He became famous for making the first solo non-stop flight across the Atlantic Ocean in 1927. 
Lindbergh was born in Detroit, Michigan. His parents were Swedish immigrants. He grew up in Little Falls, Minnesota. His father, Charles August Lindbergh, was a lawyer and later a U.S. congressman, who was against the United States entering into World War I. His mother was a teacher. While he was young, he was interested in machines. In 1922 he joined a pilot training program with Nebraska Aircraft, bought his own airplane, and became a stunt pilot. In 1924, he started training as a pilot with the United States Army Air Corps. 
After finishing first in his class, Lindbergh took his first job as pilot of an airmail route in St. Louis. He flew the mail in an airplane.
In April 1923, while visiting friends in Lake Village, Arkansas, Lindbergh made his first ever flight over Lake Village and Lake Chicot.
Lindbergh gained fame around the world as the first pilot to fly solo (alone) and non-stop across the Atlantic Ocean. He flew from Roosevelt Airfield (Nassau County, Long Island), New York, USA to Paris, France on May 20-21, 1927 in his single-engine airplane "The Spirit of St. Louis". He needed 33.5 hours for the trip. When he arrived back in the United States, many warships and aircraft escorted him to Washington, D.C. where President Calvin Coolidge gave him the Distinguished Flying Cross. 
Lindbergh's act won him the "Orteig Prize", which was 25,000 US dollars. A parade was held for him on 5th Avenue in New York City on June 13, 1927. At the end of the year, he was named "Time"'s first Man of the Year. 
He served on a variety of national and international boards and committees, including the central committee of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in the United States. 
Lindbergh's Medal of Honor recognized that he had done something unique. This is one of only two medals given for conduct during peacetime.
The words of Lindbergh's citation explain:.
For displaying heroic courage and skill as a navigator, at the risk of his life, by his nonstop flight in his airplane, the "Spirit of St. Louis," from New York City to Paris, France, 20-21 May 1927, by which Capt. Lindbergh not only achieved the greatest individual triumph of any American citizen but demonstrated that travel across the ocean by aircraft was possible.
Lindbergh married Anne Morrow in 1929. In 1932 he made headlines again, when his baby son, Charles Lindbergh III, was kidnapped and murdered. Bruno Hauptmann was convicted of the crime and later put to death in the electric chair. The Lindberghs later moved to Europe. He died of lymphoma on August 26, 1974 in Hawaii.
Lindbergh is honored in aviation for mapping out polar air-routes, flying at high altitudes, and decreasing fuel use. 
Lindbergh's legacy is, in part, his unique solo flight which changed public opinion about the value and significance of aircraft and air travel. In greater part, his legacy developed from what he did with his status and fame. He used his celebrity to advance aviation across the world.
A developing Lindbergh legacy is in life sciences.

</doc>
<doc id="19076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19076" title="Pilot">
Pilot

A pilot is a person that drives a vehicle (form of transportation) such as an airplane, spacecraft, or boat. All types of pilots must pass a number of tests and obtain a license before they can operate the vehicle. The pilot of a flying machine is usually in charge for the whole trip. A ship pilot usually only guides the ship through an especially difficult place such as a harbor. 

</doc>
<doc id="19077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19077" title="Charles August Lindbergh">
Charles August Lindbergh

Charles August Lindbergh, Sr. (January 20, 1859 – May 24, 1924), was a United States Congressman for 6th District of Minnesota from 1907 to 1917. He was the father of Charles Lindbergh.

</doc>
<doc id="19078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19078" title="Faroe Islands">
Faroe Islands

The Faroe Islands or Føroyar (that meaning "Sheep Islands") are a group of eighteen islands in the north Atlantic Ocean between Scotland, Norway, and Iceland.
They are a part of the Kingdom of Denmark, but have had local (autocratic) rule since 1948, and people in the Faroe Islands have had the right to do business with people from all countries since 1856. Most government matters are controlled by the Faroese government, except for military defense.
The Faroes have similarities to Iceland, Shetland, the Orkney Islands, the Outer Hebrides and Greenland. The island group, or archipelago, left Norway in 1815. The Faroes have their own representatives in the Nordic Council.
Administratively, the islands are divided into 34 municipalities within which there are 120 or so cities and villages. Traditionally, there are also the six "sýslur" ("regions"; Norðoyar, Eysturoy, Streymoy, Vágar, Sandoy and Suðuroy).
The Faroe Islands are eighteen islands off the coast of Northern Europe, between the Norwegian Sea and the north Atlantic Ocean. Its area is 1,399 square kilometres (540 sq. mi), and has no major lakes or rivers. There are 1,117 kilometres (694 mi) of coastline, and no land boundaries with any other country. The only island that does not have anybody living on it is Lítla Dímun.
Fish, raising sheep, and tourism are important parts of the economy of the Faroe Islands. The economy was in trouble around 1990. Unemployment decreased in the later 1990s. It was down to about 6% at the end of 1998. By June 2008 unemployment had declined to 1.1%, before rising to 3.4% in early 2009. However, since fishing is so important to the economy, if there are problems with fishing, the economy could be in trouble Since 2000, new business projects have been created in the Faroe Islands to attract new investment. The introduction of Burger King in Tórshavn was widely publicized but no one knows how things will go for this company. Trades on the islands are easy by the bridges or the tunnels that connect 80% of the population in the islands.
The national holiday Ólavsøka, is on 29 July. It commemorates the death of Saint Olaf. The celebrations are held in Tórshavn. They start on the evening of the 28th, and go until 31 July.
The official part of the celebration starts on the 29th, with the opening of the Faroese Parliament. In the day there is a procession with many people from the churches in the islands.
The Nordic House in the Faroe Islands () is the most important cultural institution in the Faroes. It supports Nordic and Faroese culture, locally and in the Nordic region. The House is managed by a director changed every four years.
In the islands there are many artists and musicians, with the most famous listed below:
Musicians:
Bands:
In the Islands,there are music festivals,where international musicians participating, like
Traditional Faroese food is mainly based on meat and potatoes and uses few fresh vegetables. A very important meat in the islands is lamb, the first ingredient of many dishes. Other typical dishes from the islands are fresh fish, blubber, whale, seabirds, and Faroese puffins and their eggs.
The climate is defined as Maritime Subarctic, with not hot summers, and with cold winters. Usually there is fog or a heavy wind that causes air traffic problems.
Many species of birds live sometimes in the islands, like Eider, Starling, Wren, Guillemot, and Black Guillemot. Only a few species of wild land seals live in the Faroe Islands today, the Grey Seals. Sometimes tourists can see whales,in the waters near the islands.
Grey Seals are very common around the Faroese shores. The natural vegetation of the Faroe Islands is like in the Scottish islands or in Ireland. It is mostly wild flowers, grasses, moss and lichen.

</doc>
<doc id="19079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19079" title="Faroese language">
Faroese language

Faroese is the Germanic language of the Faroe Islands spoken by about 70,000 people. The language came from Old Norse which was spoken in the Middle Ages. Faroese is the most similar to Icelandic. The alphabet has 29 letters that come from the Latin alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="19080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19080" title="Laura Ingalls Wilder">
Laura Ingalls Wilder

Laura Ingalls Wilder (February 7, 1867 - February 10, 1957) was an American writer. She is best known as the author of "Little House on the Prairie" series of books. A TV series, "Little House On the Prairie", was inspired by the story of her life as told in her books. The series starred Melissa Gilbert as Laura and Michael Landon as Charles 'Pa' Ingalls.

</doc>
<doc id="19081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19081" title="Mestizo">
Mestizo

Mestizo (meh-STEE-tzo) is a Spanish term for a person who is of mixed European (usually Spanish) and Native American ancestry. 
Mestizos have existed since the time when Spain controlled what is now Latin America. A mestizo was usually the son of a Spanish father and a Native American mother. Mestizos form the largest part of the population in some Latin American nations, a large minority of mestizos makes up most of the population in Mexico, which is the Spanish-speaking nation with the largest population in the world.
During the colonial era, many Native Americans were converted to Roman Catholicism and began using the Spanish language instead of their traditional one. This was because of the concept that existed in the Spanish colonies which gave more "value" to European people over Native Americans and Africans. Because of this, many Native Americans gained better social status by calling themselves "mestizos" instead of "Native American."

</doc>
<doc id="19083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19083" title="Royal Air Force">
Royal Air Force

The Royal Air Force (sometimes called RAF, its acronym), is the air force of the United Kingdom. The RAF began in 1918 when the Royal Flying Corps (spoken as 'core') and the Royal Naval Air Service joined together. It is the oldest air force in the world. The first man to lead the RAF was Hugh Trenchard. The RAF have many bases across the world, including the UK, Falkland Islands, Cyprus and Gibraltar. Some examples of the UK bases are RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland, RAF Valley in Wales, RAF Aldergrove in Northern Ireland and RAF Linton-on Ouse in England. The RAF has very new planes including the Eurofighter Typhoon, Panavia Tornado and the BAe Systems Hawk. The Hawk is used to train fast-jet pilots.
The RAF was very busy during World War II. A lot of important planes were built for the RAF during that time. The Supermarine Spitfire, Hawker Hurricane and Avro Lancaster bomber were aircraft which helped defend Britain during the Battle of Britain. The RAF lost a lot of pilots and aircraft because they were shot down by the "Luftwaffe", the German Air Force.

</doc>
<doc id="19085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19085" title="Tequila">
Tequila

Tequila is a Latin American drink from Mexico that contains alcohol. It is made from a plant called agave. It contains about 40 percent alcohol, and is often used in bars and nightclubs to make mixed drinks such as the "tequila sunrise" or the Margarita. It is also muggish

</doc>
<doc id="19087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19087" title="The Book of One Thousand and One Nights">
The Book of One Thousand and One Nights

The Book of One Thousand and One Nights is an old cycle (or group) of stories that mostly come from Arabia and Persia, and a few also from India, Central Asia and China. All these stories were later collected together. There are different layers of the stories:

</doc>
<doc id="19092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19092" title="Coup d'état">
Coup d'état

A coup d'état (pronounced []), or just coup ([]) for short, is the removal of a head of state and/or head of government from power (overthrow). Unlike a revolution, which usually takes large numbers of people to take over, a coup can be done by a small number of people. Even one person can cause a coup who, Idi Amin for example, controls the country's army. Coups can also be done by other countries, such as the 1953 Iranian coup d'état. One well-known failed coup was the Beer Hall Putsch, where Adolf Hitler tried to take over the government of the state of Bavaria in Germany.
The term comes from French for "a (sudden) blow (or strike) to a state".
Informally, "coup" is sometimes used to refer to takeovers, or wins, in places other than government, such as inside a company or corporation.

</doc>
<doc id="19110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19110" title="Walt Disney">
Walt Disney

Walter Elias Disney (December 5, 1901 - December 15, 1966) was an American business magnate, animator, cartoonist, producer, screenwriter, entrepreneur, and voice actor. Disney was an important person in the American animation industry and throughout the world. He is regarded as an international icon, and philanthropist. He is well known for his influence and contributions to the field of entertainment during the 20th century. Along with his brother Roy Disney, he was the founder of Walt Disney Productions. The corporation is now known as The Walt Disney Company. 
As an extraordinary animator and entrepreneur, Disney was well-known as a film producer and a showman, as well as an innovator in animation and theme park design. He and his staff created some of the world's most well-known fictional characters including Mickey Mouse. He provided the original voice for Mickey Mouse. He received four honorary Academy Awards and won 22 Academy Awards from a total of 59 nominations, including a record four in one year. It gave him more awards and nominations than any other person in history. Disney also won seven Emmy Awards. He gave his name to the Disneyland, and Walt Disney World Resort theme parks in the United States, as well as international resorts like Tokyo Disney Resort, Disneyland Paris, and Hong Kong Disneyland.
He died on December 15, 1966 from lung cancer in Burbank, California. A year later, construction of the Walt Disney World Resort began in Florida. His brother Roy Disney inaugurated the Magic Kingdom in 1971.
Disney was born on December 5, 1901 at the address of 2156 North Tripp Avenue in Hermosa, Chicago, Illinois. His father Elias Disney had Irish-Canadian ancestry and his mother, Flora Call Disney had German and English ancestry.
His great-grandfather, Arundel Elias Disney, had emigrated from Gowran, County Kilkenny, Ireland where he was born in 1801. Arundel Disney was a descendant of Robert d'Isigny, a Frenchman who had traveled to England with William the Conqueror in 1066. The d'Isigny name was anglicized as "Disney" and the family settled in a village now known as Norton Disney, south of the city of Lincoln, in the county of Lincolnshire.
Disney's best-known creation is the cartoon character, Mickey Mouse. Disney even provided the voice for Mickey Mouse for many years. Donald Duck is another famous creation. Minnie Mouse and Pluto are also his creations. Disney was once fired from a newspaper company in Kansas City, Missouri because of his lack of creativity.
Walt Disney began as a cartoonist in the 1920s. He created Oswald the Lucky Rabbit but lost ownership of the character due to a contract problem. He then created Mickey Mouse. Walt Disney started the Walt Disney Studios and created the first full length animated movie when he created Snow White and the Seven Dwarves. The movie was a huge success. The money from the movie helped Disney create many more cartoons and movies. He earned 32 academy awards. Disney once refused an offer from Alfred Hitchcock to make a movie at Disney World after Hitchcock filmed "Psycho". 
In the 1950s Walt Disney created Disneyland in Anaheim, California. Disneyland was the first modern theme park. Disney also bought the land for Walt Disney World Resort in Florida. Disney did not see Walt Disney World finished though because he died before it opened. Both Disneyland and Walt Disney World (and now other Disney theme parks) are famous for their design, level of detail, being very clean, and animatronics.
Disney died of lung cancer and was cremated in 1966.
After Disney's death, many rumors were spreading that Disney's body was not cremated, but it was cryogenically frozen, and that his frozen corpse was stored beneath the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disneyland. Those rumors were false. Disney experts and people from his family said that Walt did not want to be frozen.

</doc>
<doc id="19125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19125" title="Eucharist">
Eucharist

The Eucharist, also called holy communion, the sacrament, or the Lord's supper, is a kind of religious ritual in many Christian churches. It started when Jesus Christ told his followers to eat bread and drink wine in memory of him, at the Last Supper. 
According to the Roman Catholic Church, the Eucharist is the true presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. During a Mass, through the act of transubstantiation, the bread and wine offered change, and are no longer bread and wine. They become the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ. The bread and wine do not change appearance, but they are the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ, which Catholics in good standing (not in the state of mortal sin) come and receive Christ—they consume Him. This follows what was said by Christ "Eat my Body and Drink my Blood" (John ch.6). Most Protestant denominations believe that this was meant as a symbol, while the Catholic Church bases its beliefs on the tradition handed down through the church. 
First century St. Ignatius of Antioch, disciple of the beloved disciple John, in speaking of "the heretics plaguing the church" in their day, wrote: "They abstain from the Eucharist because they do not confess that the Eucharist is the flesh of our Savior Jesus Christ" (Smyrnaeans, 7).
From the second century, St. Justin Martyr wrote:
"This food we call Eucharist, which no one is allowed to share except the one who believes that our teaching is true, and who has been washed with the washing that is for the remission of sins, and unto regeneration, and so lives as Christ has handed down. For we do not receive these as common bread and common drink; but just as Jesus Christ our Savior, having been made flesh by the word of God, had both flesh and blood for our salvation, so likewise we have learned that the food over which thanks has been given by the prayer of the word which comes from him, and by which our blood and flesh are nourished through a change, is the Flesh and Blood of the same incarnate Jesus" (The First Apology).
In most Protestant churches, not including Lutheranism, the sacrament of communion involves eating small wafers or Matzos and drinking wine or grape juice, and not believing that it is the actual body and blood of Jesus, but as a very important symbolic observance, and fulfillment of what Christ commanded. Some churches offer it daily, some weekly, some monthly, and some a few times a year.
Unlike the Catholic teaching, Lutherans teach that the bread and wine is Jesus' body and blood, but is bread and wine also (consubstantiation).
In the Latter Day Saints or "Mormon" Church, followers eat small pieces of bread and drink water. They believe that this is a symbol of the body and blood of Jesus, and they call it the Sacrament. They also believe that it helps them to make the promises of baptism all over again.

</doc>
<doc id="19128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19128" title="Stroke (disambiguation)">
Stroke (disambiguation)

Stroke can mean one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="19131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19131" title="Little House on the Prairie">
Little House on the Prairie

Little House on the Prairie is a book written by Laura Ingalls Wilder in 1935. It is one part of series of books about Wilder's childhood in Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Kansas during the late 19th century. The books have been made many times into movies and television series. Some other writers have also written books about Laura and her relatives.
 

</doc>
<doc id="19133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19133" title="Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano">
Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano

Piccolo Coro dell'Antoniano is an Italian choir of children. It was created in Bologna in 1963 by Mariele Ventre. The children had to help singing children at Zecchino d'Oro festival. In 1995, Mariele Ventre died and the choir has a new director - Sabrina Simoni - and a new name - "Piccolo Coro "Mariele Ventre" dell'Antoniano".

</doc>
<doc id="19135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19135" title="Ward Cunningham">
Ward Cunningham

Howard G. "Ward" Cunningham (born May 26, 1949) is an American computer programmer. He started the first wiki website on March 25, 1995, and is considered the inventor of that software. He currently lives in Beaverton, Oregon.
Ward Cunningham got a Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and computer science from Purdue University, and then got his master's degree in computer science from there as well. he has worked for Tektronix Computer Research Laboratory, the Eclipse Foundation, and Microsoft, among other places. In 2009, he joined AboutUs, an editable guide to websites.

</doc>
<doc id="19136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19136" title="Chain">
Chain

A chain is like a rope, but made up of several elements called links.

</doc>
<doc id="19137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19137" title="Rope">
Rope

A rope is made out of several threads. The material can be organic, like flax, or it can be small threads of steel (in case of a steel rope, wire or cable). A rope can be used to lift, or pull things, like pulling a ship into a harbour with another ship, or fixing the ship so it does not move away.

</doc>
<doc id="19138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19138" title="The X-Files">
The X-Files

The X-Files is an American science fiction television series set in Maryland. It ran from its creation in 1993 until 2002, lasting for nine seasons. On January 24, 2016, a new season began airing. The series is about two FBI agents, Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Fox Mulder (David Duchovny). Together, they work to find answers to strange cases. Many of these cases have to do with aliens and the paranormal.
"The X-Files" was a very popular show; it is the second longest running science fiction show behind "Stargate SG-1". It also won awards like the Emmy Awards and the Golden Globe Awards.
The plot of the show has to do with finding the answer to mysteries, or X-Files. Mulder believes that the answers to many of these mysteries have to do with aliens and the paranormal, while Scully believes that the answer can be found using science. Sometimes, there are monsters that are introduced into the show. Episodes with monsters in them are called "Monster-of-the-week" episodes.
There is a plot in the show about Mulder's sister, Samantha Mulder. She was taken by aliens when she was little. Mulder spends a lot of time looking for her. In season seven, Mulder finds out that both the aliens and the government took his sister for experiments. They wanted to make an alien-human hybrid and used Samantha as a test subject.
Mulder and Scully believe that there is a part of the government that is helping the aliens. They find out this is true. The part of the government that helps the aliens is called "The Syndicate." The Syndicate helps the aliens to take over Earth.
Eventually, Mulder is taken by the aliens and is replaced in the series by John Doggett, another FBI agent. Doggett and Scully then work together in season eight. In season nine, Scully is replaced by Monica Reyes.
In 1998, a movie called " was made. In the plot of the series, it is between seasons five and six. It is mainly about aliens. It was directed by Rob Bowman.
Another movie, called ", was made in 2008, six years after the season ended. The movie is more like a horror story than a story about aliens. It was directed by Chris Carter. It earned $20,982,478 in the US, earned $47,386,956 in countries outside the US, and in total earned $68,369,434.

</doc>
<doc id="19139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19139" title="Patent">
Patent

A patent gives an inventor the right to stop other people making or using their invention. If someone makes or uses that invention without being allowed to, the inventor can sue that person in court to make them stop. The inventor can sell the patent to another person or company.
A patent lasts for up to 20 years, depending on the country. After that, anyone can copy the invention. 
Each country has its own patents. China gives Chinese patents. India gives Indian patents. The United States gives United States patents. An inventor can get a patent in any country the inventor wants. An inventor can get patents in many different countries for the same invention. Each patent in each country costs money.
The rules for patents are similar for most countries.
To get a patent, the inventor must ask the government by describing the invention in writing. This is called a patent application. The inventor can write the patent application, but it is usually written by a person trained to write patent applications. This person is called a patent agent or, if the person is a lawyer, a patent attorney.
The government does not usually just give the inventor a patent. Instead, the government tries to confirm whether the idea is actually new. This is called patent examination. The government will try to find books, stories, or other patents that show that the idea was not new. The inventor, or his or her patent attorney, then tries to show how the inventor's idea is different from anything that the government finds.
If the government finds that the inventor's idea is new, it will give the inventor a patent. The government will also send the inventor a copy of his or her patent application with a special seal. This copy is the patent.
The inventor must also pay the government a tax to get a patent. Usually, an inventor pays money to ask for the patent, and the inventor pays money when he or she gets a patent. In some countries, the owner of a patent must also pay money to keep the patent. Some can be cheap and some can be expensive.
The owner of a patent can stop other people from using their idea. If someone other than the patent owner uses the patent, this is called infringing a patent. If the owner knows that someone is infringing his or her patent, the patent owner can ask a court to stop them. If the court agrees that the other person was using the patent, the court can make that person pay a fine to the patent owner.
The patent owner can give other people permission to use their patent. This is called a license. The person that wants to use another person's patent will usually pay money to the patent owner.
Patents most often cover products or processes that contain ‘new’ functional or technical ideas. They are concerned with how things work, how they are made or what they are made of. Patents cover many different things such as electronics, medicines, agriculture and transport – anything in fact, from a small detail in an electric switch to an entire power station.
Usually, to get a patent there are three rules that the idea needs to follow:
Often a product is marked with a text saying 'patent pending’ or 'pat. pending', which means that a patent has been asked for (part of) the product. Then people are warned that they should not copy the invention. 
Patents are usually very long. They include a number of smaller parts. A patent usually includes a section that briefly describes the idea called the abstract. It also may include a section that describes other people's inventions and how the inventor's idea is different called the "background of the invention."
The patent also includes a long description of the idea itself called a "detailed description." In this section, the inventor tries to describe every detail of his or her invention.
The patent also has a number of pictures called the "figures." The figures are usually drawn by people called draftsman that are trained to draw in a special way. The pictures are labeled with numbers to show different parts of the invention.
At the end of most patents is a section called the claims. These are usually numbered. They include a short statement that lists all of the things needed for the invention. A court will use the claims to decide if another person is "infringing the patent."
Patent -Citizendium 

</doc>
<doc id="19140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19140" title="The Wizard of Oz">
The Wizard of Oz

The Wizard of Oz is an American musical movie. It was produced by MGM and released by RKO in 1939. The movie is based on the children's book "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" by L. Frank Baum. This book was published in 1900. The book and movie are about a little girl's adventures in the land called Oz. 
The song "Over the Rainbow" won the Academy Award for Best Original Song. The movie was first televised in 1956. It became an annual Thanksgiving television special for many years. The movie was named the most-watched motion picture in history by the Library of Congress.
In 1998, the movie was sixth on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Movies list. The movie has been chosen for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.
Dorothy (Judy Garland) lives on a drab Kansas farm with her Auntie Em and Uncle Henry (Clara Blandick and Charlie Grapewin). A powerful storm sweeps her away to the Land of Oz. She accidentally kills a wicked witch. She wants to go home, but only the Wizard of Oz (Frank Morgan) can send her home. She must go to the Emerald City to see him. She sets off on the Yellow Brick Road wearing the witch's ruby slippers. She makes three friends on the road: a Scarecrow, a Tin Man, and a Cowardly Lion (Ray Bolger, Jack Haley, and Bert Lahr).
On the way to Emerald City, the friends are tormented by The Wicked Witch of the West (Margaret Hamilton). She is the sister of the witch Dorothy killed. She wants the ruby slippers. Dorothy won't give the slippers to the witch. The friends arrive in Emerald City. The Wizard sends them off to kill the witch. The friends are captured by the witch. Dorothy throws a pail of water over the witch. The witch melts.
In the Emerald City, the four friends are welcomed as heroes. The Wizard prepares his hot air balloon to take Dorothy back to Kansas. The balloon takes off without her. A good witch called Glinda (Billie Burke) tells Dorothy she can go home by just clicking the heels of the ruby slippers together and thinking about home. She does this. She wakes up in her bed. Her adventures have been a dream.

</doc>
<doc id="19141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19141" title="Category:1935 books">
Category:1935 books


</doc>
<doc id="19142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19142" title="Assassination">
Assassination

Assassination is the murder of an important or popular person. Usually the person is a political leader, like the head of a country or a political party. Assassinations are usually done for political reasons or for payment. A person who assassinates someone is called an assassin.
Throughout history, assassinations have happened for many different reasons. Sometimes assassinations have been used to take over governments. Other times, assassinations have been used to kill military leaders during wars, or for religious reasons. Some assassins want revenge, or just want to be famous.
Assassinations have happened ever since people started living in group societies.
The Old Testament of the Bible talks about assassinations in the Books of Judith, Kings, Samuel, and Chronicles.
An ancient Indian writer named Chanakya, who lived from about 350 283 BC, wrote a lot about assassinations in a book called "Arthashastra". One of his students later assassinated some of his enemies, including two of Alexander the Great's generals.
Famous victims of assassinations include Philip II of Macedon (336 BC), Alexander the Great's father, and Julius Caesar (44 BC). Emperors of the Roman Empire were often assassinated so that a different leader could take their place.
In the Middle Ages, many kings in the Eastern Roman Empire were killed by assassinations so that new kings could take power.
During the Renaissance, assassinations became more common in Western Europe. Kings William the Silent of the Netherlands (1584), Henry III of France (1589), and Henry IV of France (1610) were all assassinated.
The first American use of state assassination (where a government planned to assassinate someone) happened in 1620. It happened in Plymouth in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, where the Pilgrims had landed. Native Americans had lived there before the Pilgrims landed, but the Pilgrims wanted the land to themselves. Myles Standish invited a local Native American tribal chief, the chief's 18-year-old brother, and two other Native Americans to a feast. Then they locked the door, killed the three older men, and hanged the teenager in public as a warning to the other Native Americans to stay away.
Assassinations have been common in modern history. This section does not list every assassination that has happened in modern history. It lists some examples of world leaders who were assassinated, and explains some of the reasons why these assassinations happened.
In Imperial Russia, two emperors were assassinated within 80 years: Paul I (1801) and Alexander II (1881).
In the United States, four presidents were assassinated within 100 years. They were Presidents Abraham Lincoln (1865), James Garfield (1881), William McKinley (1901), and John F. Kennedy (1963).
After Abraham Lincoln was killed, Andrew Johnson became President. He was President for four years. During that time, 12 people who held important political jobs were assassinated. The next president, Ulysses S. Grant, led the United States from 18691877. During that time, 11 government leaders were assassinated; another 9 were attacked, but survived.
Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated in 1914. Some historians say this assassination started World War I.
In the 1930s and 1940s, Josef Stalin's NKVD assassinated many people outside of the Soviet Union, including Leon Trotsky. These were mostly people who Stalin thought were against him or could take power from him. He wanted to make sure to keep the power he had, so he killed many of his opponents.
Between 1934 and 1944, different individuals and groups tried 27 different times to assassinate Adolf Hitler, the leader of Nazi Germany during The Holocaust and World War II. These people wanted to stop Hitler from taking over so many countries and killing so many people. However, he always survived.
During World War II, the Allies used assassinations to kill important Nazi and Japanese leaders:
Some famous human rights activists were also assassinated in the next few decades. They were assassinated by people who did not like the things they were doing to work for human rights. The most famous activists who were assassinated include:
Between 1960 and 1965, the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) tried at least eight times to assassinate Cuban leader Fidel Castro. Around this time, the CIA also made plans to assassinate Patrice Lumumba, the only democratically elected leader of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Between 1960 and 1970, the CIA also encouraged and in some cases helped with assassination plans against:
In 1979, the Iranian Revolution turned Iran into an Islamic Republic. A group called Iran Human Rights Documentation Center says that between 1979 and the 1990s, leaders of the Iranian government had 162 people assassinated, in 19 different countries. The group says Iran stopped the assassinations because a German court put out an arrest warrant for the head of Iranian military intelligence.
Anwar Sadat, the President of Egypt, was assassinated in 1981 at a parade. He was killed by people who wanted to take over the country and make it into an Islamic Republic.
In 1983, Benigno Aquino, Jr. was assassinated. Aquino was against Ferdinand Marcos, the dictator who ruled the Philippines. The people of the Philippines were so upset that they started the non-violent People Power Revolution. This led to the end of Marcos's government. Aquino's widow, Corazon Aquino, became President of the Philippines.
In India, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated in 1984. Her son Rajiv Gandhi became the next Prime Minister. He was assassinated in 1991. (They were not related to Mohandas Gandhi.)
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated in 1995. The Israelis and Palestinians were working on a peace agreement. Rabin was killed by an Orthodox Jew who did not agree with the peace treaty. Many historians think Rabin's murder is one of the main reasons the peace talks fell apart.
In Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in 2007. Bhutto had been the first woman ever elected to lead a Muslim country. An Al-Qaeda leader said that Al-Qaeda assassins had killed Bhutto. He said they did this because Bhutto was trying to get rid of violent Jihadist militia groups in Pakistan. He said this made her important to the United States, so Al-Qaeda killed her.
One research study looked at assassinations of national leaders (leaders of countries, like presidents or prime ministers). The study showed that:
Another study looked at all assassinations between 1946 and 2013. It included not just national leaders, but also other members of government (including local governments), and people who were against the government. This study found that between 1946 and 2013, a total of 954 people were assassinated in 758 different attacks.
This study also looked at who was most likely to be assassinated. Of those 954 people who were assassinated:

</doc>
<doc id="19144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19144" title="Gillian Anderson">
Gillian Anderson

Gillian Leigh Anderson OBE (born August 9, 1968) is an American-British film, television and theatre actress, activist and writer. Her credits include the roles of FBI Special Agent Dana Scully in the long-running and widely popular series "The X-Files", ill-fated socialite Lily Bart in Terence Davies' film "The House of Mirth" (2000), and DSI Stella Gibson on the BBC crime drama television series "The Fall". Among other honours, Anderson has won a Primetime Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award and two Screen Actors Guild Awards.
After beginning her career on stage, Anderson achieved international recognition for her role as FBI Special Agent Dana Scully on the American sci-fi drama series "The X-Files" for all ten seasons (1993–2002, 2016). Her film work includes the dramas "The Mighty Celt" (2005), "The Last King of Scotland" (2006), "Shadow Dancer" (2012) and two "X-Files" films: "The X-Files: Fight the Future" (1998) and "The X-Files: I Want to Believe" (2008). Her other notable television credits include: portraying Lady Dedlock in the successful BBC production of Charles Dickens' "Bleak House", Wallis Simpson in "Any Human Heart", portraying Miss Havisham in "Great Expectations" (2011) and Dr. Bedelia Du Maurier on "Hannibal". In 2013, Anderson began starring as DSI Stella Gibson on the critically acclaimed BBC crime drama television series "The Fall". She has been serving as an executive producer from its second series. She will be appearing as goddess Media in the upcoming TV series "American Gods". Anderson is the co-writer of "The EarthEnd Saga" novel trilogy and the self-help guide book "WE: A Manifesto for Women Everywhere".
Aside from film and TV, Anderson has taken on the stage and has received both awards and critical acclaim. Her stage work includes "Absent Friends" (1991) – for which she won a Theatre World Award for Best Newcomer, "A Doll's House" (2009) – that earned her a Laurence Olivier Award nomination, and a portrayal of Blanche DuBois in "A Streetcar Named Desire" (2014, 2016) – for which she won the "Evening Standard" Theatre Award for Best Actress and received her second Laurence Olivier Award nomination for Best Actress.
Anderson has been active in supporting numerous charities and humanitarian organizations. She is an honorary spokesperson for the Neurofibromatosis (NF) Network and the co-founder of South African Youth Education for Sustainability (SAYes). Anderson was appointed an honorary Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 2016 for her services to drama.

</doc>
<doc id="19145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19145" title="Debt">
Debt

Debt is what someone owes to someone else. Usually, debt is in the form of money, but it can also be items, services, favors, or other things. Thus if you make an agreement to give or do something for someone else, you now owe a debt.
Goods, services or money borrowed with the intent of repayment (in kind or not) creates a debt. Debt can be secured or unsecured in nature.
A secured debt uses "collateral", which is an asset that is promised to the debt-holder until the debt has been repaid. If the repayment is not made in full, the lender gets the collateral asset. For instance, a car loan typically creates a secured debt. If you still owe money on the car loan and do not make timely payments, the note-holder can take back (or repossess) the car and sell it to get the money still due. A home mortgage is similar.
An unsecured debt is more risky to the debt-holder (the lender, also called creditor). In the event of non-payment of the debt, the lender cannot take assets. Credit card debt is typically unsecured. If you charge items to a credit card and do not make the monthly payments, the credit card issuer can report the non-payment to the credit-reporting agencies. That will reduce your credit score so others will not lend you money. But usually they cannot take back whatever you bought with the card.

</doc>
<doc id="19146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19146" title="Uranium">
Uranium

Uranium is a chemical element (a metal) on the periodic table. It has an atomic number of 92, which means that a uranium atom has 92 protons in its center, which is called a nucleus. Uranium that is dug out of the ground will be made from three different isotopes: three different types of uranium with different numbers of neutrons in their nuclei. Most of it is Uranium-238; uranium-235 is less common; uranium-234 is the rarest. Pitchblende is the main ore that is mined for uranium. 
Uranium-235 can be used in nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons by having a neutron fired into its nucleus by humans. This turns the uranium-235 into uranium-236 and splits the nucleus into two smaller nuclei. This makes two completely different elements with smaller atomic numbers. This process is called nuclear fission and creates lots of heat. This heat makes it very useful for making steam in nuclear reactors, or for making explosions with nuclear weapons. But most such weapons use Plutonium made from uranium-238. Uranium is a bit radioactive. 
Uranium which has had its uranium-235 taken out of it is called depleted uranium. It is used in anti-tank weapons. Uranium can also be used as a dye for stained glass or pottery, which is how it was used before people found out that it was radioactive.
Uranium is a dangerous substance. Because Uranium is radioactive it is often seen with the hazard sign for radioactive elements, a group of three triangles with curved outer edges pointing in towards the middle (as you can see on the left). Some people believe that Uranium is light green, and glows. However, this is not true. Uranium is a shiny white metal, but is usually seen in its oxide form which is black.

</doc>
<doc id="19151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19151" title="The Graduate">
The Graduate

The Graduate is a 1967 American movie based on a novel by Charles Webb, and directed by Mike Nichols. It is set in Southern California.
In the movie and book, a recent college graduate (played by Dustin Hoffman) is seduced by Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft), the wife of his father's business partner. He later falls in love with their daughter Elaine (Katharine Ross).
The movie was Hoffman's first major role (it was his second role). He was nominated for an Academy Award for his performance.
The soundtrack album contained music by folk duo Simon and Garfunkel, and replaced The Beatles's "White Album" for the number one position (most sales) on the music charts.
Scenes from "The Graduate" have been well-remembered by many people, since it appeared. In one of them, one-word advice for corporate success ("Plastics") is given by a family friend of Benjamin's. (Reportedly, sales of stock in plastics companies jumped in the months after the movie appeared.) Another scene, where Ben tries to stop Elaine from marrying another man, has been imitated and parodied in television programs, including the cartoon series "Daria".
In 1998, a play based on the movie in London and on Broadway; its stars included Kathleen Turner, Alicia Silverstone and Morgan Fairchild.
Uncredited:
Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, and Katharine Ross earned Oscar nominations for their performances.
Along with the acting nominations, the movie received nominations for Best Cinematography, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Picture. Mike Nichols won the Academy Award for Best Director.
The movie won the BAFTA Award for Best Film, the BAFTA Award for Best Editing (to Sam O'Steen) and the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
In 1996, "The Graduate" was picked to keep in the U.S. National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.
American Film Institute recognition
The movie is listed in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book.
Alfa Romeo made a "Graduate" edition Alfa Romeo Spider, the car Benjamin drives in the movie.

</doc>
<doc id="19156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19156" title="Aquitaine">
Aquitaine

Aquitaine (Occitan: "Aquitània"; ; ) is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. With over 41,000 square kilometers, it is one of the largest region of mainland France (the largest of all French regions is French Guiana, in South America).
Its capital was Bordeaux, the largest city. The French name of the people living in the region is "Aquitain".
The five departments in the region were Dordogne, Gironde, Landes, Lot-et-Garonne, and Pyrénées-Atlantiques.
The Aquitaine region was the third largest region of Metropolitan France, after Midi-Pyrénées and Rhône-Alpes. It had an area of . It bordered with three French regions: Poitou-Charentes to the north, Limousin to the northeast and Midi-Pyrénées to the east. To the south is Spain (Aragon and Navarre) and to the west the Atlantic Ocean. The coast along the Atlantic Ocean, part of the Bay of Biscay, has the tourist name of Côte d'Argent ("Silver Coast").
The Greenwich Meridian passes through Aquitaine.
Most of Aquitaine is in the Aquitanian basin, a relatively flat and geologically young landscape. High mountains are found only in the south of Aquitaine, in the Pyrenees mountain range. The Pic Palas (), at , is the highest point of Aquitaine; it is on the border with Spain.
The main rivers of the region are the Garonne, that flows through the Gironde and Lot-et-Garonne departments; the Dordogne, that flows through the Dordogne and Gironde departments; the Lot, that flows through the Lot-et-Garonne department; the Dropt, that flows through the Dordogne, Gironde and Lot-et-Garonne departments; and the Adour, that flows through the Landes department.
The climate is mild - except in the high mountains - all year round. On the Atlantic coast, the annual average temperature is above 15 °C, in Bordeaux is about 14 °C and on the border of Limousin is still 11 °C. Rainfall is relatively high and is higher in the south of the region.
Aquitaine came into the control of England when Eleanor of Aquitaine married Henry II of England in 1152. It remained in English control until 1453 at the end of the Hundred Years' War.
The Aquitaine region is formed by five departments:
The Aquitaine region had a population, in 2012, of 3,285,970, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The 10 most important cities in the department are:

</doc>
<doc id="19164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19164" title="Frances Winfield">
Frances Winfield

Frances Winfield is the wife of an American politician, L. Paul Bremer III. They have two children.
She is an author. She was born in Connecticut. She met her husband at a music concert. They fell in love in college. They got married in 1966. Both she and her husband are strong Roman Catholics. They are ministers in their home state of Maryland.

</doc>
<doc id="19168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168" title="Nightmare">
Nightmare

A nightmare is a very powerful dream that the sleeper finds disturbing. Nightmares usually have either physiological causes, like a high fever, or psychological ones, like trauma or stress in the sleeper's life. Nightmares are common, but nightmares that happen very often can cause problems with sleep. They may cause people to get medical help.
Nightmares usually happen during REM sleep. 
In earlier times, people thought that such nightmares were really the work of demons. They thought people were having nightmares because an Incubus was sitting on the chest of the sleeper. This can also be seen on the image. Sometimes people also thought magic and demonic possession were involved. 
In the 19th century, people thought their diet was responsible. When Ebenezer Scrooge sees a ghost in A Christmas Carol, by Charles Dickens, he thinks "... an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crumb of cheese, a fragment of an underdone potato..." is responsible. Similarly, the "Household Cyclopedia" (1881) offers this advice about nightmares:

</doc>
<doc id="19169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19169" title="Melilla">
Melilla

Melilla is a city in North Africa, right opposite Spain. It belongs to Spain, and is all surrounded by Morocco, which believes it should belong to them. Ceuta is another such city.
Its surface is about 20 square kilometers, and there are almost 70,000 people living there.

</doc>
<doc id="19171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19171" title="Ceuta">
Ceuta

Ceuta is a Spanish city in North Africa, at the Strait of Gibraltar. The City area is about 20 square kilometers, and there are over 82,000 people living in the city. The city is surrounded by a border fence, which has been built to keep the Moroccans (and other Africans) from moving there unlawfully. Ceuta is part of Spain (and therefore the European Union). Until it became a self-governing city in 1994, it belonged to the Cadiz Province.
It was built by the Phoenicians at a strategic position.

</doc>
<doc id="19175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19175" title="Burkina Faso">
Burkina Faso

Burkina Faso (officially Republic of Burkina Faso) is a country in West Africa. It used to be called Upper Volta and the name was changed to Burkina Faso in 1984. The country was once ruled by France, but it has been independent since 1960. The capital is Ouagadougou.
In 2005, about 13,228,000 people lived in the country. It is next to Mali, Niger, Benin, Togo, Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire. It does not have any coast with an ocean or sea. People from Burkina Faso are called Burkinabé (pronounced burr-KEE-na-bay).
People have lived in the area of Burkina Faso for thousands of years. At first they were hunter-gatherers, hunting animals and collecting fruits and vegetables. Later they became farmers. People called the Mossi arrived between the 11th and 13th centuries. They ruled the area until the end of the 19th century. In 1896 France beat the Mossi kingdom and became the colonial rulers of Burkina Faso. After World War I, the country was called Upper Volta.
In 1960, Upper Volta became independent from France. The first president of the new country was Maurice Yaméogo. After he became the president, Yaméogo banned other political parties. For several years the people of Upper Volta were very unhappy with the government and in 1966 the military took over in a military coup. In 1983 the government was taken over again by military men called Thomas Sankara and Blaise Compaoré. Sankara became president. In 1984, he changed the name of the country to Burkina Faso. It means "land of honest people".
In December 1985, Burkina Faso went to war for five days with near-by country Mali. In 1987, there was another military coup and Sankara was assassinated (murdered). Blaise Compaoré became the president.
On 28 October 2014 protesters began to march and demonstrate in Ouagadougou. Compaoré was ready to change the constitution and extend his 27-year rule. On 30 October 2014, some protesters set fire to the parliament. They also took over the national television headquarters. On 31 October 2014, President Compaoré, resigned after 27 years in office.
In 2015 the country held their first election. Roch Marc Christian Kabore, a former Prime Minister, was elected as President.
Burkina Faso is divided into thirteen regions, forty-five provinces, and 301 departments. The regions are:
Below is a list of the largest cities in Burkina Faso. For other cities see List of cities in Burkina Faso.
Burkina Faso is made up of two major types of countryside. The larger part of the country is covered by a peneplain. It has a gently undulating landscape with a few isolated hills. The southwest of the country forms a sandstone massif. The highest peak, Ténakourou, is found at an elevation of . The area is bordered by sheer cliffs up to high. The average altitude of Burkina Faso is . The difference between the highest and lowest terrain is no greater than . Burkina Faso is a mostly flat country.
Burkina Faso has a tropical climate with two distinct seasons. In the rainy season, the country receives between of rainfall. In the dry season, the harmattan – a hot dry wind from the Sahara – blows. The rainy season lasts about four months, from May/June to September. It is shorter in the north of the country.
Burkina Faso's natural resources include manganese, limestone, marble, phosphates, pumice, salt and small deposits of gold.
Burkina Faso's fauna and flora are protected in two national parks and several reserves.
Literature in Burkina Faso is based on the oral tradition, which remains important. Since the 1970s, literature has developed in Burkina Faso with many more writers being published.
There is also a large artist community, especially in Ouagadougou. Much of the crafts produced are for the growing tourist industry.
The food of Burkina Faso, typical of west African cuisine, is based around staple foods of sorghum, millet, rice, maize, peanuts, potatoes, beans, yams and okra. The most common sources of protein are chicken, chicken eggs and fresh water fish.

</doc>
<doc id="19176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19176" title="Battle of Waterloo">
Battle of Waterloo

The Battle of Waterloo was a battle that was fought mostly between French and British forces. Napoleon was crowned as Emperor of France in 1804. Then he launched many successful attacks on other countries in Europe. France soon had an empire that stretched from Spain to the Russian border. The only country that was still not captured was Great Britain. The Royal Navy had many ships, so invasion by France was not possible. However, Great Britain was not strong enough to stop Napoleon and his army from taking over most of mainland Europe.
Napoleon seemed unstoppable until two separate campaigns caused his empire to fall apart. He gathered a huge army to invade and conquer Russia once and for all in 1812. However, he did not think that he would have very many difficulties and it turned out he did. His army was caught by the Russian winter and destroyed by the weather and lack of food.
Now that Napoleon was much weaker, the countries of Eastern Europe, led by Austria and Prussia, began to ally against him, forcing his troops back towards France. Meanwhile, a small British army in Portugal and Spain, led by Arthur Wellesley (later to become Duke of Wellington) began to win victories over the French armies and to push Napoleon’s troops out of Spain.
By 1814, he faced total defeat, with the Austrians and Prussians invading from the east and the Duke of Wellington and the British army in the west. A peace treaty was arranged. Napoleon would abdicate (give up the throne) and be exiled to a small Mediterranean island called Elba, with a small army. He was replaced as ruler of France by Louis XVIII, brother of Louis XVI.
Once he was on the island of Elba, Napoleon was really not happy. He had been promised money by the new French government, but the money did not come. His wife (an Austrian princess) and his sons were forbidden to visit him.
Messages from France showed that the new French King was unpopular because he was trying to ignore many events that had taken place during the revolution. The allies that had united against Napoleon were arguing in Vienna over the lands that they had recaptured. He seized his opportunity, going by ship in February 1815 and landing in France again. His welcome was very mixed. Many French were tired of war and the death and suffering that it led to. However, there were others who wanted a return to the power and glory of the old days and saw Napoleon as their best hope.
His first days were tense but, by personal leadership and persuasion, Napoleon managed to gain the support of the army. When the king panicked and fled the country, there was little to stop Napoleon returning to Paris and resuming his title of Emperor.
What Napoleon needed now was a period of time to organize himself and the French army. The allies were caught completely by surprise and their only chance to stop him lay with two small armies in Belgium: a British and Dutch army commanded by the Duke of Wellington and a Prussian (German) army commanded by Marshall Blücher.
Napoleon decided on a further gamble. He gathered an army and prepared a surprise attack on Wellington and Blucher, hoping to catch them unprepared. His plan was successful at first and he crossed the Belgian border before Wellington and Blucher could join forces.
His first battle was at Ligny and, after a fierce day’s fighting, he defeated the Prussian army, forcing it to retreat. Thinking that Blucher would retreat back to Prussia, Napoleon turned his attention towards Wellington. There had already been a small battle at Quatre Bras, as Wellington tried to delay the French advance. This had given Wellington enough time to prepare a full defensive position across the road leading to Brussels, near the village of Waterloo.
The French army advanced towards them and set up their camp on a ridge facing the combined British and Dutch (Anglo-Dutch) army. Heavy rain caused delays and confusion and both armies settled down for the night in the mud to await the dawn and the forthcoming battle.
Napoleon’s army faced the Duke of Wellington’s Anglo-Dutch army near Waterloo on 18th June 1815. Wellington’s troops were deployed behind a low ridge, partially protecting them from the French massed artillery.
At around 11.00 Napoleon ordered his guns to open fire. French infantry began an attack against the Château of Hougoumont, defended by the British Foot Guards. This was intended to draw Wellington’s reserves away from the centre, where Napoleon’s main attack would fall.
And according to records this battle was considered to be a vital key to who will win the Battle Of Waterloo.
At 13.30 Napoleon launched an infantry attack against Wellington’s centre. Men of the King’s German Legion resolutely defended the farm of La Haye Sainte. This disrupted the French attack. British artillery and musketry succeeded in checking the French assault and the British Household and Union heavy cavalry brigades charged after the wavering Frenchmen. Elated by their success, the British cavalry pursued their enemy too far and in turn suffered terrible casualties at the hands of the French lancers and light cavalry.
At 15.00 Marshal Ney, believing the Anglo-Dutch army to be retreating after the heavy bombardment they had received all day, led a massed French cavalry attack against Wellington’s centre. However, the British infantry, forming squares to defend themselves from cavalry attack, held firm. The French took terrible casualties as they circled these impregnable formations of infantrymen. The situation further deteriorated for Napoleon as Blucher's Prussian troops launched an attack at Plancenoit to his rear at 16.30.
By early evening the French attack at Hougoumont, intended as a diversion, was now having the opposite effect. The French committed more and more troops to the bitter fighting around the château, which was held by only a small force of British Guardsmen. More French reserves were being sent to meet the Prussian threat to the rear of Napoleon’s army at Plancenoit. However, the French had at last succeeded in capturing the farm of La Haye Sainte, only a short distance from Wellington’s centre.
At approximately 19.30 Napoleon committed his last reserves in a final effort to obtain victory. As Prussians arrived to bolster Wellington’s flank, veterans of the French Imperial Guard advanced to 'finish the job'. The British infantry, exhausted from the continuous cannonade they had received all day, rose to meet them. The musketry of the British Guards Brigade defeated Napoleon’s finest troops. They fled, and the whole French army joined them in retreat. Wellington ordered his entire line to advance and the French were driven from the field.

</doc>
<doc id="19178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19178" title="São Tomé and Príncipe">
São Tomé and Príncipe

The Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe is the second smallest African country, formed by two islands: São Tomé and Príncipe.
They are about 140 km apart and about 250 and 225 km, respectively, off of the northwestern coast of Gabon.
The islands were a Portuguese colony, but have been independent since July,1975. Portuguese is the official language.
The Porguese arrived in São Tomé Island on December 21, 1471 and Príncipe Island on January 17, 1492. As these were days dedicated to saints, both islands had saints’ names but S. Antão Island, the former name of Príncipe Island, changed in 1500 in honour of a Portuguese prince.
The official historical version says that the country was uninhabited before the arrival of the Portuguese sailors.
The first successful Portuguese settlement in the archipelago was established in 1493 when the volcanic soil of the islands proved to be good for sugar plantation - the first economic cycle. But between the 17th and the 18th centuries, the islands suffered an economic and social decline as a consequence of a slaves’ revolt headed by King Amador.
In the 19th century the archipelago regained importance to Portuguese settlers when they decided to introduce coffee and cacao plantations.
On February 3, 1953 the Massacre of Batepá occurred, when thousands of local people were killed by Portuguese settlers as a consequence of a disagreement between them about hired labour. Since slavery had been abolished, the Portuguese needed workers for their cacao and coffee plantations and the local people refused to work under the conditions offered, which, for them, were similar to slavery.
The archipelago’s independence movement started with the constitution of the CLSTP (Committee for the Liberation of São Tomé and Principe), formed in the late 1950s, which changed its name to MLSTP (Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe), the first political party after the independence, on July 12, 1975.
When São Tomé and Príncipe was declared independent and became the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, Manuel Pinto da Costa, the MLSTP`s General Secretary, was named the first archipelago president. From then on, the political system implemented was the single party regime which prevailed until the 1990s when there was a political and economic reform and the multiparty regime was implemented. In the first presidential election, Miguel Trovoada was elected as the second president of the islands. His successor, after two terms, was Fradique de Menezes, the current president who is in his second presidential term.
The president, like the prime minister, is elected by direct universal suffrage for a five-year term and can be re-elected. The PM is elected for a four-year term, and the thirteen members of the cabinet (the group of ministers) are chosen by him.
The cabinet constitutes the executive power and shares the legislative power with the National Assembly. The judiciary is independent from the other two.
As a multiparty regime, the country’s main political parties are: the Movement for the Liberation of São Tomé and Príncipe (MLSTP), the Party of Democratic Convergence (PCD), the Independent Democratic Action (ADI), and the Democratic Movement Force for Change - Liberal Party(MDFM-PL).
São Tomé and Príncipe is divided into 2 provinces: Príncipe, São Tomé.
The provinces are further divided into seven districts, six on São Tomé and one on Príncipe (with Príncipe having self-government since April 29, 1995).
São Tomé and Príncipe is formed by two volcanic islands - the biggest of which is S. Tomé - and several islets, and is in the Gulf of Guinea, off the Western equatorial coast of Africa. Both islands belong to the Cameroon volcanic mountain line.
The archipelago is 1,001km2 in size. The equator line passes through the Rolas’s Islet which is in the South of S. Tomé Island. The biggest peak is in S. Tomé, known as Peak of S. Tomé with 2,024m.
The climate is tropical, hot and humid, with an annual average temperature of 27 C. There are two main seasons: Gravana, the driest season when there is less or no rainfall and the temperatures are lower; and the rainy season, when the temperature is higher. The former goes from June to August, and the latter, from October to May.
Since the archipelago´s discovery, its economy has been based on agriculture and fishing. Nowadays its main crop is cacao; it represents 95% of the country’s exports, and is followed by copper, palm oil and coffee. Another economic activity is tourism, which the government and the private sector have been trying to promote and develop in the last few years.
After independence, the country’s economy was nationalized until the early 1990s when the government started an economic reform that consisted in privatization of the economic sectors.
Nowadays, the government budget is mainly based on foreign assistance from donors such as the UN Development Programme, the World Bank, and country donors.
The main importers of the archipelago's production are Portugal with 51%, France with 14%, Angola with 11%, and Japan with 10%.
In 2001, petroleum was found in the waters claimed by the archipelago and Nigeria. After negotiations, the two countries reached an agreement and, in 2003, a joint development zone was opened for bids. But so far, there is no petroleum exploitation yet.
According to the last census, about 163,000 people lived in São Tomé and Príncipe. 52,000 lived in the capital and less than seven thousand lived on Príncipe Island.
São Tomé is the country’s capital and main city.
The people of S. Tomé and Príncipe are divided into the following ethnic groups: mixed-blood, descendents of Portuguese settlers and African slaves; Forros, the biggest ethnic group and descendents of freed slaves; Angolares, descendents of Angolan slaves; Tonga, mixed blood of Forros and hired workers from Angola, Mozambique and Cape Verde; and Cape Verdean descendents.
In the last few years, people in the country have been leaving to find better life conditions in the city S. Tomé.
The country’s official language is Portuguese. Other languages spoken are: Forro, a creole spoken by 80% of S. Tomé Island`s people; Angolar, spoken mainly on the Southeast of S. Tomé Island; Lung`ié, spoken in Príncipe Island; and Creole from Cape Verde.
Almost everyone is Christian: Roman Catholic, Evangelical Protestant and Seventh-Days Adventist. But the Christian faith co-exists among the people with Animist practices.
The country’s culture is the product of Portuguese and African cultural influence. Typical dances on the islands are: Ússua, Socopé, Dêxa, and Puita. Tchiloli, Danço Congo and Auto dos Floripes are public theatrical performances, examples of the Portuguese cultural legacy.
Important names of the archipelago history and culture are King Amador and Alda Espírito Santos(1926-2010).
The illiteracy rate in São Tomé and Príncipe is above 70%, although children start school at age six.
Nowadays, the country has three private universities.

</doc>
<doc id="19180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19180" title="Equatorial Guinea">
Equatorial Guinea

The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is a nation in west central Africa, and one of the smallest countries in Africa. It borders Cameroon on the north, Gabon on the south and east, and the Gulf of Guinea on the west. In the past, it was the Spanish colony of Spanish Guinea. The country's territory is both on the continent and on islands. The continental part is known as Río Muni. On one island, Bioko, is the capital, Malabo.
Equatorial Guinea is the only country in Africa where Spanish is an official language.
Equatorial Guinea is divided into seven provinces (capitals appear in parentheses):
The provinces are further divided into districts.

</doc>
<doc id="19181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19181" title="Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo">
Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo

Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo (born June 5 1942) has been the President of Equatorial Guinea since 1979. Mbasongo did the military academy in Zaragoza, Spain. He came to power in a military coup, deposing the former leader Francisco Macías Nguema. Ngema had ruled the country for the previous decade. He was known to be very cruel. Ngema was sentenced to death and executed by a firing squad. Mbasonga promised to start over and to do a better job at governing the country.
In 1982, a new constitution was made. MBasogo was given the newly-created post of president. He was re-elected in 1989, 1996 and 2002. In 1989 he was the only candidate, in the 1996 and 2002, international observers said the election results were false. 
Obiang's regime kept clear authoritarian characteristics even after other parties were legalized in 1991. Most domestic and international observers consider his regime to be one of the most corrupt, ethnocentric, oppressive and undemocratic states in the world. Equatorial Guinea is now essentially a single-party state, dominated by Obiang's Democratic Party of Equatorial Guinea (PDGE). In 2008 American journalist Peter Maass called Obiang Africa's worst dictator, worse than Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. The constitution grants Obiang wide powers, including the power to rule by decree. Nonetheless, Obiang has far less power than Macías. For the most part his rule has been considerably milder. Notably, there have been none of the atrocities that characterized the Macías era.
All but one member of the 100-seat national parliament belong to the PDGE or are aligned with it. The opposition is severely hampered by the lack of a free press to express their views. Around 90% of all opposition politicians live in exile, 550 anti-Obiang activists have been jailed unfairly, and several killed since 1979.
In July 2003, state-operated radio declared Obiang to be a god who is "in permanent contact with the Almighty" and "can decide to kill without anyone calling him to account and without going to hell." He personally made similar comments in 1993. Despite these comments, he still claims that he is a devout Catholic and was invited to the Vatican by John Paul II and again by Benedict XVI. Macías had also proclaimed himself a god.

</doc>
<doc id="19187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19187" title="Hogwarts">
Hogwarts

Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is a fictional boarding school in J. K. Rowling's best-selling "Harry Potter" series. It is a school of magic for witches and wizards between the ages of eleven and seventeen living in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Scotland.
Gryffindor house was born under Godric Grand Gryffindor, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values courage. Its symbol (animal) is the Griffon and its colours are scarlet(red-purple) and yellow / goldish yellow. Nearly Headless Nick is the house ghost. The Gryffindors always compete with the Slytherins.
The Gryffindor Common Room (the place where the Gryffindor students spend their time and do their homework) is in one of the castle's towers, at the seventh floor. At the door, there is the Fat Lady, or the Lady who is fat. She lets the students in only after they give her the password (which changes from the beginning of the school year to the end of the school year). The Fat Lady wears a blue dress. In the room there is a place with fire, many chairs and tables, and two pair of stairs which take the girls and boys to their sleeping rooms.
The head of Gryffindor house is Minerva McGonagall.
List of well known Gryffindors
Hufflepuff house was born under Helga Hufflepuff, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values hard work, patience, friendship and fair play. Its symbol (animal) is the badger and its colours are black and yellow. The Fat Friar is the house ghost.
The Hufflepuff Common Room door is near the kitchens, in the dungeons. It is a quite cozy and welcoming place, not at all like a dungeon. In the room there are yellow hangings and fat armchairs, with little underground tunnels that take the students to their sleeping rooms. The tunnels have round doors like barrel-tops.
The head of Hufflepuff house is Pomona Sprout.
Cedric Diggory dies in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" book and movie.
Ravenclaw house was born under Rowena Ravenclaw, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values intelligence. Its symbol (animal) is the eagle and its colours are blue and bronze, the house's saying is "Wit beyond measure is mans greatest treasure". The Grey Lady is the house ghost and when she was alive she was Helena Ravenclaw, daughter of Rowena Ravenclaw. 
The Ravenclaw Common Room is in Ravenclaw Tower, on the west side of the Castle. At the door the students must answer a riddle that the eagle-shaped door knocker asks them.
The head of Ravenclaw house is Filius Flitwick.
List of well known Ravenclaws
Slytherin house was born under Salazar Slytherin, from whom it gets the name. The house especially values ambition and determination. Its symbol (animal) is the snake and its colours are green and silver. The Bloody Baron is the house ghost.
The Slytherin Common Room is in the dungeons of Hogwarts and is placed under The Black Lake, in the school grounds.
The house has a negative reputation, with a lot of people saying that it is the house from where almost all dark wizards in Britain, notably Tom Riddle (Voldemort), came from.
The house is usually in competition with the Gryffindor house, as they "don't like each other on principle".
The head of Slytherin house is Severus Snape and in the 7th book Horace Slughorn.
List of well known Slytherins

</doc>
<doc id="19194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19194" title="Toronto Maple Leafs">
Toronto Maple Leafs

The Toronto Maple Leafs are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). 
They were formed in 1917 as one of the six original NHL teams. They were called the Toronto Arenas, but changed their name to St. Patricks, then to Maple Leafs, in the 1920s. The maple leaf is a symbol of Canada. The hockey team was actually named for an older team, a minor league baseball team called the Toronto Maple Leafs.
The Maple Leafs have won the Stanley Cup championship 13 times, more than any team except the Montreal Canadiens. However, they have not won since 1967. 
They won in their first year, 1918, and then again in 1922 and 1932. In their early years, they had many NHL scoring champions: "Babe" Dye in 1923 and 1925, "Ace" Bailey in 1929, Harvey "Busher" Jackson in 1932, Charlie Conacher in 1934 and 1935, and Gordie Drillon in 1938. However, no Toronto player has been scoring champion since then.
They were a strong team in the 1940s. They won the Stanley Cup in 1942 against the Detroit Red Wings, four games to three, even though they were losing three games to none at one point. This was the first of six championships in ten years; they also won in 1945, then three years in a row: 1947, 1948, and 1949, and again in 1951. Some of their best players in that time included goaltender Turk Broda, forward Syl Apps, and defence "Babe" Pratt, who won the Hart Trophy as the most valuable player in 1944. Ted "Teeder" Kennedy won the Hart Trophy in 1955; but no other Maple Leaf has won that award.
The team won four Stanley Cups in the 1960s: three in a row - 1962, 1963, and 1964 - and again in 1967. Frank Mahovlich, a left winger, was the star player. They were also led by defenceman Tim Horton (who began the Tim Horton's doughnut shops), center Dave Keon, goaltender Johnny Bower, and winger George Armstrong. Keon won the Conn Smythe Trophy as the top player in the playoffs in 1967.
In the late 1970s, the Maple Leafs were a good team, with players such as centre Darryl Sittler (who scored a record 10 points in one game) and Swedish defence Borje Salming (one of the first Europeans to play in the NHL). However, there were 18 NHL teams by then, so it was hard to come first. Wendel Clark was a strong player in the 1980s; he became the team's all-time top scorer. Mats Sundin was another Swedish star in the 1990s and 2000s. They also had some good goaltenders around this time: Curtis Joseph, then Ed Belfour.

</doc>
<doc id="19195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19195" title="Detroit Red Wings">
Detroit Red Wings

The Detroit Red Wings are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). 
The Red Wings were formed in 1926. The Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL) folded that year, and many of the players from the WCHL's Victoria Cougars went to play for Detroit. As a result, the team was first called the Detroit Cougars, then later it changed to Detroit Falcons, before becoming known as the Red Wings.
In the late 1940s, the line of Sid Abel, Gordie Howe, and Ted Lindsey became very important to the team. Abel won the Hart Trophy in 1949, and Lindsey won the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion in 1950. Howe then won six Hart and six Art Ross Trophies between 1951 and 1963. Terry Sawchuck was a star goaltender, who ended up with more career shutouts than any other goalie (103). Red Kelly won the first ever Norris Trophy as best defence. As a result of having such great players, the Red Wings won four Stanley Cups in six years: 1950, 1952, 1954, and 1955. Two of these were very close: they were won in overtime of the 7th and deciding game in 1950 (against the New York Rangers) and 1954 (against the Montreal Canadiens). These are the only two times the NHL championship has gone to overtime of game seven.
The Red Wings continued to be a strong team throughout the 1960. They lost the NHL Finals five times between 1956 and 1966. Norm Ullman was their star center in the 1960s.
They were not a strong team again until the late 1980s. Steve Yzerman became a star at this time. Sergei Fedorov became the first Russian to win the Hart Trophy in 1994. The Red Wings won the President's Cup as top team in the NHL regular season in 1995, 1996 (with a record number of wins), and 2002. They won the Stanley Cup in 1997, 1998, and 2002. Nicklas Lidstrom won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman three times beginning in 2001. The team was one of the richest in the NHL, which helped them get many good players.
The Red Wings have won eleven Stanley Cups, the third most of any team, and the most of the United States teams. They first won in 1936 and 1937, and again in 1943. Ebbie Goodfellow won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player in 1940. Sid Howe was also a star on the team at this time.

</doc>
<doc id="19196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19196" title="Wayne Gretzky">
Wayne Gretzky

Wayne Gretzky (born January 26, 1961 in Brantford, Ontario) known as "The Great One", was a Canadian ice hockey player in the National Hockey League (NHL) for 20 seasons. He was coach and part-owner of the NHL's Phoenix Coyotes until he stepped down on September 24, 2009. He also managed Canada's Olympic hockey teams in 2002 and 2006, as well as Canada's 2004 World Cup of Hockey team.
Gretzky was a star junior player with the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds of the Ontario Hockey League. When he was a boy he went from a bad first season, to great improvement. But this success also brought criticism because his father pushed Gretzky's success over other young players'. In 1978, when he was 17, he began playing as a professional with the Indianapolis Racers of the World Hockey Association (WHA), but was sold to the Edmonton Oilers after only a few games. He was third in WHA scoring and rookie of the year.
The WHA folded in 1979, and the Oilers team joined the NHL. At the age of 19, Gretzky won his first Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player (MVP). He won this trophy nine times. In 1981, he won his first of ten Art Ross Trophies as NHL scoring champion. He set many records in the 1980s, including most goals (92), assists (163), and points (215) in a season. In the 1981-82 season, he scored 50 goals in 39 games, when the record had been 50 games. He was named as Sports Illustrated athlete of the year in 1982. He was also called "the greatest player of all time" in "Total Hockey: The Official Encyclopedia of the NHL".
Gretzky won four Stanley Cup championships with the Edmonton Oilers: 1984, 1985, 1987, and 1988. He won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs in 1985 and 1988. Then, in 1988, he was traded to the Los Angeles Kings. He helped them to the finals in 1993. In 1996, he was traded to the St. Louis Blues, and signed with the New York Rangers at the beginning of the 1996-97 season. He retired, and was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, in 1999.
When he retired, he had 2857 career points, over 1000 more than the next highest player. To this day, no one else has reached 2000. He still holds the record for most career goals (894) and assists (1963) (he has more assists than anyone else has points). He holds many other records, such as most 100-point seasons (15), most points in the playoffs (47 in one year and 382 career), and most games in a row with at least one point (51). He was named to the first or second all-star team 15 times and was MVP of the NHL all-star game three times. He had 61 official NHL records when he retired.
Gretzky's number, #99, was retired by the entire league. He was named Canada's male athlete of the 20th century. He has also been honoured with Canada's highest honour for a civilian: the Order of Canada.
Gretzky married American actress Janet Jones in 1988. They have five children: Paulina, Ty, Trevor, Tristan, and Emma.

</doc>
<doc id="19197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19197" title="Hart Memorial Trophy">
Hart Memorial Trophy

The Hart Trophy is given to the most valuable player of the National Hockey League every year. It was given to the NHL by Dr. David Hart, father of NHL coach and manager Cecil Hart. It was first awarded in 1924.
Wayne Gretzky has won the most Hart Trophies with nine, followed by Gordie Howe with six and Eddie Shore with four. Howie Morenz, Bobby Orr, Bobby Clarke, and Mario Lemieux have won the award three times each.
The closest vote for the trophy was in 2002, when Jose Theodore and Jarome Iginla tied; Theodore won because he had more first-place votes. In 1999, Chris Pronger won by one point over Jaromir Jagr; and in 1990, Mark Messier won by two points over Ray Bourque.

</doc>
<doc id="19200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19200" title="Frankfurt">
Frankfurt

Frankfurt am Main is one of the biggest cities in Germany. The City of Frankfurt has a population of 670,000. The metropolitan area, called Rhine-Main after its two biggest rivers, has over four million people. Frankfurt is an important centre for traffic and for the financial business. The Frankfurt International Airport is the largest in Germany, and the third biggest in the world. Frankfurt's train station is one of the largest, and its highway crossing is the centre of Germany's street network. Frankfurt is the seat of the European Central Bank, the German Federal Bank (Bundesbank) and of the biggest German banks, and it has an important stock exchange where shares of German companies are traded.
Frankfurt is on the Main river. The city's name means "ford of the Franks" - a ford is a place in a river where it is so shallow that you can walk through it, and the Franks were a Germanic people which existed in the first millennium. So, this was a place where travellers could cross the river without a boat. The frankish kings built a palace and a church here. Over the centuries, this group of buildings grew to be a big city which was famous for international trade and fairs, like today. Frankfurt was one of the most important cities of the Holy Roman Empire, and its emperors were crowned here. In the 19th century, Frankfurt was the capital of the German Confederation which was founded after the Holy Roman Empire fell apart. During the revolution of 1848, the first freely elected German parliament worked in Frankfurt.
During the Industrial Revolution, many factories and railway lines were built in Frankfurt and its suburbs. In the city centre, a lot of big buildings were built, like an opera house, theatres, stock exchange, railway stations, department stores or museums. Tram lines were constructed to make travelling inside the growing city easier. In World War II, the old city was totally destroyed by airplane bomber attacks. After the war, Germany was divided into two parts, and Frankfurt became the economic capital of West Germany while Bonn was chosen to be the political capital.
Frankfurt is a very international city. Every third inhabitant is not German. Most immigrants come from southeastern Europe, Turkey and North Africa, but there are people from almost every country living in Frankfurt. There are also many international business companies here, and the big airport links Frankfurt with many countries in the world. Many banks are based in Frankfurt, and the city has some of the tallest buildings in Europe.
"Frankfurter" is also a name for a hot dog, or sausage, because they are said to have originated in the city.
Frankfurt has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Köppen climate classification).
The first Wikimania conference was hosted in this city in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="19204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19204" title="Hugh Capet of France">
Hugh Capet of France

Hugh Capet (French: Hugues Capet) (941–996) was King of the Franks from 987 until his death in 996. The dynasty he established ruled France in an unbroken line for 300 years. 
Hugh was born in the winter of 941 and was the son of Hugh the Great and Hedwige of Saxony. His grandfather was King Robert I. His grandmother was Beatrice of Vermandois. She was a Carolingian; a daughter of Herbert I of Vermandois. By this connection he was the fifth great-grandson of Charlemagne through Pepin of Italy.
While still a young man Hugh got the nickname "capet" from the cape he wore. These were tokens of the lay abbacies he held. 
When King Louis V died with no heir Adalbero of Reims made a plea for electing Hugh Capet. He proposed the throne was not a hereditary right but that the king should be the best man for the job. The assembly at Senlis agreed and elected Hugh King of the Franks. 
Capet is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.
He married Adelaide of Aquitaine. She was the daughter of William III of Aquitaine. Together they had:

</doc>
<doc id="19205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19205" title="Disney Channel">
Disney Channel

Disney Channel is a cable television network that is owned by The Walt Disney Company. The channel shows programs that are made for family audiences, mostly pre-teens and teenagers. The channel began on the morning of April 18, 1983. Its programs ran for 18 hours a day until December 1986. In 1983-1997, the channel was called The Disney Channel.
Disney Channel currently programs shows targeted at preschool-age children on Monday through Fridays from 7 a.m.-2 p.m. ET/PT and weekends from 7-11 a.m. ET, called Playhouse Disney. During the summer months, the Playhouse Disney block ends at 10 a.m. ET on weekdays. , the only programming featuring classic Disney characters is "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse" on the Playhouse Disney block.
Programming in this block includes "Special Agent Oso", "Imagination Movers", "Handy Manny", "Little Einsteins", "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse", "Jungle Junction" and "My Friends Tigger & Pooh".
On May 26, 2010 it was announced that the Playhouse Disney block will be re-branded under the name Disney Junior which will later become its own digital cable and satellite channel in January 2012, replacing SOAPnet. The Disney Junior channel is a direct competitor to Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. network and PBS and Comcast's PBS Kids Sprout.

</doc>
<doc id="19211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19211" title="List of dog breeds">
List of dog breeds

People have carefully bred dogs for thousands of years. Sometimes they inbreed dogs who have the same close ancestors, and sometimes they mix dogs from very different ancestors or even from different breeds. This continues today, resulting in hundreds of dog breeds, some that are similar to each other, and others that are very different. 
This list includes common breeds, rare breeds, and breeds that are still being developed into new breeds. See each article for more information.
Dog breeds are often grouped in different ways, such as:
Dog breeds are also sometimes grouped into similar , such as Mastiff types, spitz types, pit bulls, or Lurchers.
Dog breeds include:
Nonsporting Dogs
See the lists of dog breeds that these important breed registries allow:

</doc>
<doc id="19213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19213" title="Milli Vanilli">
Milli Vanilli

Milli Vanilli was a German musical group, formed in Munich. They consisted of Fab Morvan (born 1966) and Rob Pilatus (1965-1998). They were popular in the late-1980s. In 1990, people found out that the group never sang anything at all. Even at concerts, they pretended to sing (lip synching) while a recording was played. 

</doc>
<doc id="19218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19218" title="Category:Fictional dogs">
Category:Fictional dogs


</doc>
<doc id="19221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19221" title="Category:1706">
Category:1706


</doc>
<doc id="19222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222" title="1706">
1706

The year 1706 was a common year which started on a Friday.

</doc>
<doc id="19223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19223" title="Geology">
Geology

Geology is the study of the nonliving things that the Earth is made of. Geology is the study of rocks in the Earth's crust. People who study geology are called geologists. Some geologists study minerals and the useful substances the rocks contain (such as natural gas and oil). Geologists also study the history of the Earth. 
Some of the important events in the Earth's history are floods, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, orogeny (mountain building), and plate tectonics (movement of continents). 
Geology is divided into special subjects that study one part of geology. Some of these subjects are: 
Rocks can be found in all sorts of shapes and colours. Some are very hard and some are soft. Some rocks are very common, while others are rare. However, all the different rocks belong to three categories or types, igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. 
Igneous rock is rock that has been made by volcanic action. Igneous rock is made when the lava (melted rock on the surface of the Earth) or magma (melted rock below the surface of the Earth) cools down and becomes hard.
Sedimentary rock is rock that has been made from sediment. Sediment is all solid pieces of stuff that are moved by the wind, water, or glaciers. Sediment can be made from clay, sand, gravel and the bodies and shells of animals. The sediment gets dropped in a layer at the bottom of a river or sea. As the sediment piles up, the lowers layers get squashed together. Slowly they set hard into rock.
Metamorphic rock is rock that has been changed. The word "metamorphosis" means "change". Sometimes an igneous, or a sedimentary rock can be heated, or squashed under the ground, so that it changes. Metamorphic rock is often harder than the rock that it was before it changed. One well-known metamorphic rock is marble which is valued for its different colours, and because it can be carved and polished. Slate is a metamorphic rock that is a useful building material.
All three kinds of rock can be changed by being heated and squeezed by forces in the earth. When this happens, faults (cracks) may appear in the rock. Geologists can learn a lot about the history of the rock by studying the patterns of the fault lines. Earthquakes are caused when a fault breaks suddenly.
Soil is the stuff on the ground made of lots of particles (or tiny pieces). The particles of soil come from rocks that have broken down, and from rotting leaves and animals bodies. Soil covers a lot of the surface of the Earth. Plants of all sorts grow in soil.
To find out more about types of rocks, see the "rock (geology)" article.
To find out more about soil, see the "soil" article.
Geologists use some simple ideas which help them to understand the rocks they are studying. The following ideas were worked out in the early days of stratigraphy by people like Nicolaus Steno, James Hutton and William Smith: 

</doc>
<doc id="19224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19224" title="Pisa">
Pisa

Pisa is a city in Tuscany, Italy. About 90,000 people live in the city. The city has a very long and turbulent history. The "Leaning Tower of Pisa" is a famous landmark of Pisa.

</doc>
<doc id="19225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19225" title="Cheshire">
Cheshire

Cheshire is a county in England. It is the Northwest part of the country. It is most famous for making salt and cheese. Cheshire is made up of lots of little towns including the Borough of Macclesfield which covers a large area of plains the main attraction is in kerridge where there is the famous land mark 'White Nancy.'

</doc>
<doc id="19226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19226" title="Cayman Islands">
Cayman Islands

The Cayman Islands are a territory of the United Kingdom in the Caribbean Sea. The three islands are Grand Cayman, Little Cayman, and Cayman Brac.
Its capital, George Town, is on the main island (Grand Cayman).

</doc>
<doc id="19229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19229" title="1167">
1167


</doc>
<doc id="19230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19230" title="1097">
1097


</doc>
<doc id="19231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19231" title="1782">
1782


</doc>
<doc id="19232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19232" title="1197">
1197


</doc>
<doc id="19234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19234" title="1210">
1210

1210 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="19235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19235" title="E-mail">
E-mail

Electronic mail (or e-mail or email) is an Internet service that allows those people who have an e-mail address (accounts) to send and receive electronic letters. Those are much like postal letters, except that they are delivered much faster than snail mail when sending over long distances, and are usually free. 
Like with regular mail, users may get a lot of unwanted mail. With e-mail, this is called spam. Some programs used for sending and receiving mail can detect spam and filter it out nearly completely.
To send or receive an email in the traditional way, you need a device (computer, phone etc.) connected to the Internet and an e-mail program (simply called mailer). Several formats exist for email addresses. The most common, called RFC 2822, looks like user@domain.com. E-mail messages are sent mostly by text, and sometimes by HTML style.
Some companies let you send and receive emails for free from a remote website. Gmail, Hotmail and Yahoo! are among the many that do this kind of "web mail". Webmail does not follow the pattern below exactly because the webpage is a web application and takes care of many details by itself. The traditional way uses a mailer, as is usual with smartphones. 
Microsoft invented its own "communication protocol" (or set of rules) for sending and receiving mail, called "Exchange". Exchange protocol works entirely differently from the traditional method and is not explained here.
This diagram gives an example of what happens when email is sent from one person to another using the traditional method. In this example, Alice is sending email to Bob.

</doc>
<doc id="19239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19239" title="1231">
1231


</doc>
<doc id="19240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19240" title="1242">
1242

1242 is a year in the 13th century

</doc>
<doc id="19241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19241" title="1183">
1183


</doc>
<doc id="19242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19242" title="1155">
1155


</doc>
<doc id="19243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19243" title="1567">
1567


</doc>
<doc id="19244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19244" title="The Dillinger Escape Plan">
The Dillinger Escape Plan

The Dillinger Escape Plan is an American Mathcore/metal music group. They formed in New Jersey. They are generally a heavy group, with punk roots and influences from punk bands like The Bronx and Bad Brains.

</doc>
<doc id="19245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19245" title="Queensrÿche">
Queensrÿche

Queensryche is an American progressive heavy metal band. They formed in Bellevue Washington in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="19246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19246" title="Midnight Oil">
Midnight Oil

Midnight Oil is an Australian rock band. They formed in Sydney in 1976. The band became famous for its hard-rock sound and intense live performances. The band was politically active supporting environmentalist and indigenous causes.

</doc>
<doc id="19247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19247" title="Jon Bon Jovi">
Jon Bon Jovi

Jon Bon Jovi (born John Francis Bongiovi on March 2, 1962 in Perth Amboy, New Jersey) is an American musician and actor. He is most famous as lead singer of the group, Bon Jovi. Of origin he's Italian.
In 1983 he was one of the founder of American hard-rock band Bon Jovi. Earlier he sang in bands "Starz" and "Atlantic City Expressway".
In 2006 he was ranked in 31st place out of 100 the best vocalist in history.
He starred in 18 films, last time in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="19248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248" title="Maxi Priest">
Maxi Priest

Maxi Priest (born Max Alfred Elliot on June 10, 1962) is a English reggae singer.

</doc>
<doc id="19249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19249" title="On the Waterfront">
On the Waterfront

On the Waterfront is a 1954 American movie about mob violence among longshoremen (people who unload ships) in New Jersey. Directed by Elia Kazan, it stars Marlon Brando, Eva Marie Saint and Karl Malden.
The movie won eight Academy Awards: for Best Picture, Best Actor (Brando), Best Supporting Actress (Saint), Best Art Direction, Best Director (Kazan), Best Cinematography (Boris Kaufman), Best Film Editing (Gene Milford) and Best Original Screenpaly (Budd Schulberg).
Its most famous line is "I could've been a contender", said by Brando's character, Terry Malloy. In 2005, it ranked third on AFI's list of the one hundred most famous quotes in movie history .
Five years earlier, it was the eighth most popular movie on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

</doc>
<doc id="19250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19250" title="Faith No More">
Faith No More

Faith No More is an alternative metal band. They formed by bassist Billy Gould, drummer Mike Bordin, and keyboarder Roddy Bottum in San Francisco, California, USA, in 1981 and broke up on April 20, 1998. However, they got back together in 2009 and have continued playing since.
They became successful with singer Mike Patton in the early 1990s. Their biggest hits were "Epic" and the cover song "Easy", originally from Lionel Ritchie.
So far, Faith No More has released six studio albums, which include:

</doc>
<doc id="19251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19251" title="The Pretenders">
The Pretenders

The Pretenders are an English rock and punk rock band. They formed in Hereford in 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="19254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19254" title="Schindler's List">
Schindler's List

Schindler's List is a 1993 American movie set in World War II, and directed by Steven Spielberg. It is based on "Schindler's Ark", a 1982 book by Thomas Keneally. The movie and the book owe their names to the list of over a thousand Jews who worked in the title character's factory.
It is about businessman Oskar Schindler who saves thousands of Jews from being killed in the Holocaust by putting them to work in a factory. His list was the list of Jews he wanted to save.
The movie was nominated for 12 and won seven Academy Awards, including one for Best Picture. Spielberg won another for Best Director.
Among others such as "Citizen Kane" and "Sunset Boulevard", it has been called one of the greatest movies ever. In 1998, the American Film Institute selected it as the ninth most popular of all time in their 100 Years... 100 Movies list.
In February 1997, NBC aired a version without cuts of the movie (in two parts), much to the upset of many viewers. It was the first time a television broadcast had ever received the TV-M rating (soon to be called TV-MA).

</doc>
<doc id="19255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19255" title="Chlorofluorocarbon">
Chlorofluorocarbon

Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) are gases used for various purposes including solvents,refrigerants and aerosol sprays. They are organic chemicals and contain carbon, (sometimes hydrogen,) chlorine, and fluorine. They were much used in the middle 20th century, replacing chemicals that were toxic or flammable or had other problems. In 1978, Sweden became the first country that banned CFC products. Later, the US and Canada did the same. Now, CFC products are not allowed in most countries, because they cause ozone depletion. CFCs also are greenhouse gases. An alternative is hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). These do not destroy the ozone layer or increase global warming.

</doc>
<doc id="19256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19256" title="Singin' in the Rain">
Singin' in the Rain

Singin' in the Rain is a 1952 American movie musical romantic comedy movie starring Gene Kelly. It was directed by Kelly and Stanley Donen. It is set in Los Angeles, California in 1927. It gives an amusing look at Hollywood's change from silent movies to "talkies".
It is considered to be among the best movie musicals ever made.
Shooting on the movie began on June 18, 1951, and ended on November 21.

</doc>
<doc id="19257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257" title="North and South">
North and South

North and South is a novel by John Jakes. It is the first of three books about two friends who must fight against each other during the American Civil War.
"North and South" had two sequels. They are called "Love and War" and "Heaven and Hell". The books were written in 1982, 1984, and 1987. 
There were also TV versions made. Three miniseries were done in 1985, 1986, and 1994. The two main characters were played by James Read and Patrick Swayze (Swayze's character does not appear in the third part).

</doc>
<doc id="19258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19258" title="Category:Miniseries">
Category:Miniseries


</doc>
<doc id="19259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19259" title="Category:1982 books">
Category:1982 books


</doc>
<doc id="19263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19263" title="Apparatus">
Apparatus

Apparatus can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="19264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19264" title="Category:Cheshire">
Category:Cheshire


</doc>
<doc id="19265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19265" title="Category:1097">
Category:1097


</doc>
<doc id="19267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19267" title="Category:1210">
Category:1210


</doc>
<doc id="19270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19270" title="Category:1231">
Category:1231


</doc>
<doc id="19271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19271" title="Category:1242">
Category:1242


</doc>
<doc id="19272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19272" title="Category:1183">
Category:1183


</doc>
<doc id="19273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19273" title="Category:1155">
Category:1155


</doc>
<doc id="19274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19274" title="Category:1197">
Category:1197


</doc>
<doc id="19275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19275" title="Category:1567">
Category:1567


</doc>
<doc id="19277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19277" title="Category:1010s">
Category:1010s

The category is for articles and events specifically related to the decade of the 1010s which begins in the year 1010 and ends in the year 1019.

</doc>
<doc id="19278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19278" title="Internet Movie Database">
Internet Movie Database

The Internet Movie Database (IMDb) is an online database of information (facts) about actors, movies, TV shows, and video games. The IMDb website started in October 1990, and has been owned by Amazon.com since 1998. 

</doc>
<doc id="19279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19279" title="Category:Scientists">
Category:Scientists

These are articles about scientists.

</doc>
<doc id="19280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19280" title="Chicago Blackhawks">
Chicago Blackhawks

The Chicago Blackhawks are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They were formed in 1926, named after the 333rd Machine Gun Battalion of the 86th Infantry Division during World War I which was nicknamed the "Blackhawk Division". The division was named after Chief Black Hawk, a native American leader. The team has won the Stanley Cup Championship six times, in 1933, 1937, 1960, 2010, 2013 and in 2015. The current captain of the Blackhawks is Jonathan Toews.
The Regina Capitals were a team in the Western Canada Hockey League until 1925, when they moved and became the Portland Rosebuds. One year later, the league folded. Most of the Portland players then played for the new Chicago team in the NHL.
In the 1930s, Charlie Gardiner was a star goaltender for the team. Players on the Blackhawks won four scoring titles (Art Ross Trophy) in the 1940s: Doug Bentley in 1943, his brother Ben in 1946 and 1947, and Roy Conacher in 1949. Max Bentley also won the Hart Trophy as the league's most valuable player in 1946. Goalie Al Rollins won the Hart Trophy in 1954. By 1960, however, the team had only made the Stanley Cup final four times, winning the Cup in 1934 and 1938, and losing in 1931 and 1944.
The team was much stronger in the 1960s. Bobby Hull led the NHL in goals seven times, more than any other player. He also won three Art Ross and two Hart Trophies. Stan Mikita won four Art Ross and two Hart Trophies. Between them, they led the NHL in scoring seven times in nine years. Star goaltender Glenn Hall was an all-star many times; and Pierre Pilote won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman three times. The Blackhawks won the Stanley Cup in 1961, and also made the finals in 1962 and 1965. Goalie Tony Esposito led them to the finals in 1971 and 1973.
Since that time, they have had many star players such as Doug Wilson, Steve Larmer, Jeremy Roenick, and Tony Amonte; but they have not won the Cup since 1961, the longest wait of any NHL team. They won the Presidents' Trophy as the top team in the regular season in 1991, and made the finals again in 1992, partly due to Ed Belfour (who won two Vezina Trophies as best goaltender) and Chris Chelios (who won two Norris Trophies on Chicago). As of 2006, however, they have only made the playoffs once in the last eight years.
The mascot of the Chicago Blackhawks is named Tommy Hawk. He was introduced in the 2001–02 NHL season. He wears the Blackhawks' four feathers on his head and also wears a Blackhawks jersey and hockey pants. Tommy Hawk sometimes participates in the T-shirt toss and puck chuck with the fans.
The Blackhawks have their own official fight song called, "Here Come the Hawks!" which is also an introduction for them. A song that was called "Keys to the City" was given to the Blackhawks organization as a gift by Ministry & Co Conspirators. After the Blackhawks score a goal at the United Center they play the song "Chelsea Dagger" by The Fratellis.
In 1985, during the Campbell Conference playoff game, a tradition was started where the Blackhawks fans would cheer and applaud loudly during the singing of the national anthem. This is still done today.
Jonathan Toews was named the team's captain prior to the 2008-09 season opener which made him the third-youngest captain at the time. The Blackhawks led the NHL in home attendance with a total of 912,155, averaging 22,247 fans per game during to the 2008-09 season. The number of attendance also included the Winter Classic at Wrigley Field which had 40,818 fans in attendance.
The Blackhawks acquired forward Marián Hossa and signed him to a 12-year contract which was worth 62.8 million dollars. The deal also included Tomas Kopecky, John Madden, and Richard Petiot. Due to the salary cap, the Blackhawks were forced to give up a bunch of their players.
On June 9, 2010 The Blackhawks won their first Stanley Cup in 49 years when Patrick Kane scored the game-winning overtime goal as they defeated the Philadelphia Flyers in game 6 of the best-of-7 series.
On June 24, 2013, the team won their fifth Stanley Cup after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals. They were down 2–1 and scored two goals from Bryan Bickell and Dave Bolland 1:16 and 0:58.3 (17 seconds apart) to win 3-2.
On June 15, 2015, the Blackhawks won their third Stanley Cup championship in six years after they defeated the Tampa Bay Lightning 4 games to 2 in the 2015 Stanley Cup Finals. It was their first Stanley Cup win on home ice since 1938.

</doc>
<doc id="19283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19283" title="Cape Verde">
Cape Verde

Cape Verde (), also known as Cabo Verde and officially as the República de Cabo Verde ("Republic of Cape Verde/Cabo Verde"), is an island country in Africa. It is a group of islands in the Atlantic Ocean, off the coast of Western Africa. The islands, covering a combined area of slightly over , are of volcanic origin.
Cape Verde is one of the group of islands of the Macaronesia.
The Portuguese explorer Dinis Dias (or Denis Fernadez) discovered in 1445 a peninsula along the coast of Senegal that he named Cap-Vert (Dias named it "Cabo Verde", "verde" being Portuguese for "green", a reference to the vegetation in the area). Dias did not discover the "Cape Verde Islands", but rather the actual cape.
This peninsula is the westernmost point of the African continent.
The first Europeans to arrive in Cape Verde were the Portugueses Diogo Gomes and Antonio da Noli in 1460. The islands were uninhabited, and the first settlement was founded in 1462 on the island of Santiago (the main Island) which was divided into two “capitanias”, Alcatrazes and Ribeira Grande. The first one failed and the main activity in Ribeira Grande was the exploitation of cotton farms. Ribeira Grande served also as a slave trade post and as post of slave Christianization before they were sent to the New World.
The city suffered several pirate raids and for this reason in 1712, after a French attack, the authorities were forced to move the capital to Praia, where it is located until now. Cape Verde had the status of Portuguese colony until 1951 when Portugal changed its status to Overseas Province and in 1961 Portugal gave full citizenship to all Cape Verdeans.
Cape Verde has been independent from Portugal since 5th July 1975. The fight for independence was led by the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) and headed by Amilcar Cabral, the national hero of both countries, Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau.
The Cape Verde archipelago is in the Atlantic Ocean, approximately off the coast of West Africa, near Senegal, The Gambia and Mauritania, and is part, together with the Azores, Madeira, Savage Islands and Canary Islands, of the Macaronesia ecological region. It lies between the latitudes 14°N and 18°N, and the longitudes 22°W and 26°W.
The country is an archipelago with a total area of . It is formed by ten islands (nine inhabited) and several very small islands (islets) divided in two groups:
The islands are in two groups, arranged according to the prevailing wind direction: 
The largest islands are, to the southeast, Santiago, where lies Praia, the capital and largest city of the country, and the island of Santo Antão, in the extreme northwest. Praia is also the main population centre of the archipelago, followed by Mindelo on the island of São Vicente.
The sun shines 350 days a year and temperatures range between . The (a gentle to moderate wind) blows constantly from the ocean at a relatively low average humidity of 40% to 60%.
The Cape Verde Islands only have two seasons: The "Tempo das Brisas" ("Time of the winds") from October to mid-July and the "Tempo das chuvas" ("Rainy season") from August to September, when there may be heavy tropical rainfall. The coolest months are January and February (average temperature of 21 °C), where temperatures can drop down to 16 °C; the warmest is the month of September (up to 36 °C) with an average temperature of 27 °C.
Otherwise, the islands of Barlavento (Santo Antão, São Vicente, São Nicolao, Boa Vista, Sal, Santa Luzia, Branco and Razo) are always somewhat cooler than those of the Sotavento (Maio, Santiago, Fogo and Brava), where summers can be quite hot.
The Köppen climate classification subtype for this climate of Praia (Cabo Verde) is Bwh (Tropical and Subtropical Desert Climate).
Cape Verde's isolation has resulted in the islands having a number of endemic species, particularly birds and reptiles, many of which are endangered by human development. Endemic birds include Alexander's Swift ("Apus alexandri"), Bourne's Heron ("Ardea purpurea bournei"), the Raso Lark ("Alauda razae"), the Cape Verde Warbler ("Acrocephalus brevipennis"), and the Iago Sparrow ("Passer iagoensis"). The islands are also an important breeding area for seabirds including the Cape Verde Shearwater. Reptiles include the Cape Verde Giant Gecko ("Tarentola gigas").
Cape Verde is divided into 22 municipalities ("concelhos") and subdivided into 32 parishes ("freguesias").
Cape Verde is a representative parliamentary republic. The constitution —adopted in 1980 and revised in 1992, 1995 and 1999— defines the basic principles of its government. The president is the head of state and is elected for a 5-year term; the prime minister is the head of government. The prime minister is nominated by the National Assembly and appointed by the president.
The economic resources of Cape Verde are largely dependent on agriculture and fishing. Agriculture frequently suffers the effects of droughts. The most important crops are coffee, bananas, sugar cane, tropical fruits, corn, beans, sweet potato and cassava. The industrial sector is incipient but is based on the production of “aguardente” (spirits from sugar cane), clothing and footwear, paints and varnishes, tourism, fishing and canned fish, and salt extraction. Banana, canned fish, frozen fish, lobsters, salt, and clothes are the main exports. The national currency is the Cape Verdean escudo. Remittances from emigration are another important source of resources for the State of Cape Verde.
In Cape Verde, the annual rate of population growth and mortality are low, compared to average rates of other middle income countries. The average life expectancy is 66 years and 71 years respectively for men and women. The resident population in the country is estimated at 500,000 inhabitants. There are an estimated additional one million Cape Verdeans living abroad, mainly in the United States, Western Europe, and Africa. Cape Verde has a young population with an average age of 23 years.
Cape Verdean culture is a unique mixture of European and African elements. Corn is the staple food of Cape Verde. The national or traditional dish is "cachupa", which is a stew of hominy (dried maize kernals), beans, and whatever meat or vegetables may be available. Other common foods include rice, beans, fish, potatoes and manioc. A traditional breakfast is cuscus, a steamed cornbread, eaten with honey and milk or coffee. Grogue, or sugar cane liquor, is manufactured on the islands and is a popular drink, particularly among the men. Cape Verdean music incorporates Portuguese, Caribbean, and African influences. Popular genres include morna, funaná, batuque, coladeira, and cola san jon.
In Cape Verde, other than private clinics, the government guarantees a public health system which comprises several healthcare centers and three central hospitals (Hospital Agostinho Neto, in Praia, Hospital Baptista de Sousa, in São Vicente, and Hospital Regional de Santiago Norte, in Assomada). The cost of public health is supported by the government, but users must pay a fee which varies in accordance with the capacity of the user to afford it.
After independence the different governments of Cape Verde invested massively in education and illiteracy has been reduced drastically. Today almost one hundred percent of school-age children attend school. Attendance to primary schooling, which comprises 6 years, is compulsory and free from any charge. Education is guaranteed by a network of public schools that span from nursery school to university. There are also several private schools in all levels of education.

</doc>
<doc id="19284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284" title="Madeira Islands">
Madeira Islands

Madeira is a Portuguese archipelago that lies between and , just under north of Tenerife, Canary Islands, in the north Atlantic Ocean and an outermost region of the European Union.
The archipelago comprises the major part of one of the two autonomous regions of Portugal (the other being the Azores located to the northwest), that includes the islands of Madeira, Porto Santo, and the Desertas, administered together with the separate archipelago of the Savage Islands.
The name Madeira could be used for the autonomous region, the geographical group of islands or just the island of Madeira. These islands are part of the Macaronesia.
Madeira's official written history began in 1418, when two captains under service to Prince Henry the Navigator, João Gonçalves Zarco and Tristão Vaz Teixeira, were pushed by a storm to an island which they named Porto Santo (English: "holy harbour"). The following year, an organised expedition was sent to this new land to take possession of the island on behalf of the Portuguese crown. Later, the new settlers saw an island to the southwest, and so the larger island of Madeira was discovered.
The islands were found to be completely uninhabited, and their colonization by the Portuguese began around 1420 or 1425. To get the minimum conditions for the development of agriculture, they had to cut part of the dense forest and to construct a large number of canals ("levadas") to carry water, since in some parts of the island there was excess water, while in others water was scarce. During this period, fish constituted about half of the settlers' diet, together with vegetables and fruits cultivated from small pieces of land. Initially, these colonists produced wheat for their own subsistence, but later the quantity cultivated was sufficient to begin sending wheat to continental Portugal.
On the 23 September of 1433, the name "Ilha da Madeira" (English: "Madeira Island", or literally "island of wood") began to appear in the first documents and maps. The name given to the islands corresponded to the large dense forests of native trees that covered the island.
However, when wheat production began to fall, the crisis forced to plant other commercial crops. They brought from Sicily plants of sugarcane to produce sugar. After the 17th century, as sugar production went to Brazil, São Tomé and Príncipe and elsewhere, Madeira's most important product became its wine.
As other islands of the Macaronesia, the Madeira islands are of volcanic origin and with a subtropical climate.
The archipelago is in the African plate, in the Atlantic Ocean between the latitudes 30° and 33° north, southwest of Lisbon and, about west of the African coast, almost at the same latitude as Casablanca.
The Madeira islands have a total area of . Their individual areas vary between of the largest island (Madeira) to of the Savage Islands.
Of the eight islands, only the two largest (Madeira and Porto Santo) are inhabited, having as main accesses, the Madeira Airport in Funchal and the one in Porto Santo. By sea, Funchal has a port that receives different ships, especially cruise ships. The remaining islands are nature reserves.
The territory of the archipelago contains two main islands: the islands of Madeira and Porto Santo; besides these, there are two groups of uninhabited islands, the Desertas and Savages.
The island of Madeira has a very irregular and uneven terrain, being the highest points the peaks "Pico Ruivo" (1862 m), "Pico das Torres" (1851 m), "Pico do Ariero" (1818 m) and "Pico do Juncal" (1800 m). The northern coast is dominated by high cliffs.
The island of Porto Santo, on the other hand, has a completely different geomorphological formation of the island of Madeira. It is very flat where only small plants grow and the soils are poor and not very good for agriculture. This island has some peaks, particularly in the north, and the " Pico do Facho" (517 m) is the highest point of elevation in the island, followed by "Pico Branco" (450 m).
The highest point of Desertas Islands is "Pedregal" (442 m) in Deserta Grande, and of Selvagens Islands is "Pico da Atalaia" (153 m), in Selvagem Grande.
The average temperature for the year in Funchal, Madeira island, is 19°C (66.2°F). The warmest month, on average, is August with an average temperature of 22.6°C (72.7°F). The coolest month on average is February, with an average temperature of 16.1°C (61.0°F).
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Funchal is 596.9 mm (23.5"). The month with the most precipitation on average is December with 109.2 mm (4.3") of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is July with an average of 2.5 mm (0.1"). There are an average of 87 days of precipitation, with the most precipitation occurring in December with 13 days and the least precipitation occurring in July with 1 days.
For the Villa de Porto Santo, Porto Santo island, the average temperature for the year is 17.8°C (64.0°F). The warmest month, on average, is August with an average temperature of 21.7°C (71.0°F). The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of 15°C (59.0°F).
The average amount of precipitation for the year in Villa de Porto Santo is 375.9 mm (14.8"). The month with the most precipitation on average is January with 61 mm (2.4") of precipitation. The month with the least precipitation on average is July with an average of 2.5 mm (0.1").
The Köppen climate classification subtype for this climate of Funchal (Madeira) and Villa de Porto Santo (Porto Santo) is Csb (Mediterran Climate).
The climate of Desertas islands and partes of Porto Santo is semi-arid (Bs) and in the Savage islands is a desert climate (Bw).
Since 1976, Madeira, as the Azores, is an autonomous region of the Republic of Portugal, under the Portuguese name "Região Autónoma da Madeira", with its own executive and a regional legislature. The current president of the regional government is Alberto João Jardim. The main offices of the regional government are in Funchal, making this city the capital of the region.
Administratively, the Autonomous Region of Madeira (with a population of 267,785 inhabitants in 2011 and covering an area of ) is organised into 11 "municípios", of which 10 are in the island of Madeira and one in Porto Santo. Municipalities are further divided into 54 "freguesias", 53 in Madeira and 1 in Porto Santo.
According to the 2011 Census, the total population in the Autonomous Region of Madeira was 267,785: 126,268 men and 141,517 women. The density for the whole region is persons/km; calculating the density taking in account only the inhabited islands (Madeira and Porto Santo), the density would be inhabitants/km.
The region of Madeira is home to a great and important biodiversity, with an estimated 7,571 terrestrial species for the whole archipelago. The total number of endemic species and subspecies is about 1,419 (1,286 species and 182 sub-species), which represents 19% of the overall species diversity.
The most known environment of the archipelago is its Laurel forest (laurisilva) which still extends over 15,000 hectares or 20% of the archipelago. These forests, very rich in biodiversity, are the largest and best-preserved Laurel forests in the entire Macaronesia region. They are home to unique plant and animal species, including the famous Trocaz Pigeon or Madeira Laurel Pigeon ("Columba trocaz"), and the Madeira Kinglet ("Regulus madeirensis"). The most threatened bird of Europe, the Madeiran or Zino’s Petrel ("Pterodroma madeira") inhabits the highest cliffs in the Central Mountainous Massif of the Madeira island.
In the sea around Madeira there are numerous species of marine mammals, including 28 species of cetaceans and the critically endangered Mediterranean Monk Seal ("Monachus monachus").
There are 6 protected areas in the Madeira Archipelago, including the Madeira Natural Park. This park, which covers over 2/3 of Madeira Island and includes the entire Laurel forest, is a European Council Biogenetic Reserve since 1992, and a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site since 1999. Additionally, 11 sites in the whole archipelago are part of the Natura 2000 network and 11 other sites are designated Important Bird Areas.
The local economy is based mainly on agriculture and tourism, the main resource. Agriculture produces bananas, flowers, and Madeira wine which is exported. The industrial area is not very diverse and they are relationated with food, beverages, tobacco and construction.

</doc>
<doc id="19285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19285" title="Cameroon">
Cameroon

Cameroon (officially called Republic of Cameroon) is a country in west Africa. Its capital is Yaoundé. The largest city in Cameroon is Douala. The population of Cameroon is about 20 million. Cameroon's president is Paul Biya, and the Prime Minister is Philémon Yang. They speak nearly 250 languages in Cameroon. French and English are the official languages.
At , Cameroon is the world's 53rd-largest country. It is about the size of Papua New Guinea. The country is in Central and West Africa on the Bight of Bonny, part of the Gulf of Guinea and the Atlantic Ocean. The country's neighbours are Nigeria to the west; Chad to the northeast; the Central African Republic to the east; and Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and the Republic of the Congo to the south.
The constitution divides Cameroon into 10 regions. On 12 November 2008 the President changed the divisions from provinces to regions. Each region is headed by a presidentially appointed governor.
The regions are divided into 58 divisions. These are headed by presidentially appointed divisional officers.
Some of the largest cities in Cameroon are:
The official languages of Cameroon are French and English. It is part of both the British Commonwealth and La Francophonie.

</doc>
<doc id="19286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19286" title="Guinea-Bissau">
Guinea-Bissau

Guinea-Bissau is a country in Africa. The official language is Portuguese, and the capital is Bissau. About 1,442,000 people live in Guinea-Bissau as of 2006. The country was a Portuguese colony in the 19th century. At that time is was called Portuguese Guinea. It became independent in 1973. In 1974, the name of the country's capital was added so that it would not be confused with the neighboring country Guinea.
Guinea-Bissau is divided into 8 regions and one autonomous sector. These are divided into thirty-seven sectors. The regions are:

</doc>
<doc id="19287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19287" title="Mauritius">
Mauritius

The Republic of Mauritius is an African country. Port Louis is its capital. Mauritius is also the name of the main island the country is on. In the 2000 census, the country had a population of 1,178,848 people.
The island of Mauritius is well known for being the only known home of the dodo.
The island is in the southwest Indian Ocean. It is about east of Madagascar. The country includes the island of Mauritius as well as the islands of St. Brandon, Rodrigues and the Agalega Islands. Mauritius is part of the Mascarene Islands along with the French island of Réunion to the southwest.
The Mauritian flag is made up of four colours of equal width. 
The colours represent the following:
Mauritius, an island of volcanic origin sheltered by barriers of coral reefs forming natural, safe, crystal clear lagoons, has long been a dream destination. Known to the Arabs as early as the 10th century, but officially explored by the Portuguese in the 16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch in the 17th century. The Dutch were the ones who named the island in honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU. 
Mauritius was occupied successively by the Dutch (1598-1712) and later by the French (1715-1810). The French assumed control in 1715, developing the island into an important naval base overseeing the Indian Ocean trade, and establishing a plantation economy of sugar cane. 
The British captured the island in 1810, during the Napoleonic Wars through the Treaty of Paris. Mauritius remained a strategically important British naval base, and later on, an air station playing an important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy operations, as well as the collection of signals intelligence. On 12 March 1968, Mauritius became Independent.

</doc>
<doc id="19295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19295" title="It's a Wonderful Life">
It's a Wonderful Life

It's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 movie. It was directed by Frank Capra. It stars James Stewart, Donna Reed, and Lionel Barrymore.
George Bailey wishes he had never been born and becomes suicidal. Clarence, an angel (2nd class) helps him change his mind.

</doc>
<doc id="19297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19297" title="Djibouti">
Djibouti

Djibouti (officially called Republic of Djibouti) is a country on the eastern coast of Africa. Djibouti gained its independence on June 27, 1977. The country was created out of the French Somaliland (later called the French Territory of the Afars and Issas), which was created in the 1800s as a result of French colonialism in Africa. Djibouti, had a population of 818,159 at the 2009 census. It is one of the least populous countries in Africa.
Djibouti joined the United Nations on September 20, 1977. It is also a member of the Arab League, as well as the African Union and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD).
The history of Djibouti goes back thousands of years when it was part of the Sabean Empire (Ethiopia) to a time when Djiboutians traded hides and skins for the perfumes and spices of ancient Egypt, Pakistan, and China. Through close contacts with the Arabian peninsula for more than 1,000 years, the Somali and Afar tribes in this region became among the first on the African continent to accept Islam. Djibouti is a Muslim country which regularly takes part in Islamic as well as Arab meetings.
The country is close to a narrow part of the Red Sea so it is considered an important area from a military viewpoint.
Djibouti is near to the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Eritrea in the north, Ethiopia in the west and south, and Somalia in the southeast. The remainder of the border is formed by the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden at the east.
Djibouti has eight mountain ranges with peaks of over 1,000 m (3,281 ft). The Grand Bara desert covers parts of southern Djibouti.
Djibouti is divided into five regions and one city. It is further divided into eleven districts.
The regions and city are:
This is a list of cities in Djibouti. All places with more than 1,000 people are included.
The people of Djibouti are mostly Muslim. Islam is observed by 94% of Djibouti's population (about 740,000) (2010 estimate). The remaining six percent follow Christianity.
The Republic of Djibouti names Islam as the only state religion. The Constitution of 1992 provides for the equality of citizens of all faiths as well as the freedom to practise any religion.
Association football is the most popular sport in Djibouti. The country became a member of FIFA in 1994. They have only played in qualifying rounds for both the African Cup of Nations and FIFA World Cup. 

</doc>
<doc id="19298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19298" title="Mauritania">
Mauritania

Mauritania is a country in northwest Africa. The capital city, which is also the biggest city in the country, is Nouakchott. It is on the Atlantic coast. Its president is General Mohamed Oueld Abdel-Aziz.
At 1,030,700 km² (397,929 mi²), Mauritania is the world's 29th-largest country (after Bolivia). It is similar in size to Egypt. The land is flat in most places.

</doc>
<doc id="19299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299" title="Lake Huron">
Lake Huron

Lake Huron is one of North America's five Great Lakes. It is the third one up from the mouth. Like Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, and Lake Superior, it is also part of the boundary between the USA and Canada. The Huronian glaciation, billions of years ago, is named for the lake.
Lake Huron is more than 200 miles (325 km) long and is as much as 750 feet (230 m) deep. Many boats and ships go back and forth on Lake Huron, carrying useful things such as iron ore.
Lake Huron borders the Canadian province of Ontario and the American state of Michigan. There are no large cities on Lake Huron, but there are some small cities such as Sarnia, Ontario and Bay City, Michigan. 
The water that flows out of Lake Huron goes through a river that flows past Detroit, Michigan. The water then flows into Lake Erie on its way to the ocean.
On 1996 on hurricane-like storm appeared on Lake Huron, while the National Hurricane Center was not sure to call it a hurricane or not. Because the storm formed over Lake Huron and that it did not get a name from the NHC, many people nicknamed the storm, "Hurricane Huron".

</doc>
<doc id="19302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19302" title="Category:Great Lakes">
Category:Great Lakes


</doc>
<doc id="19303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19303" title="Reunion">
Reunion

Reunion could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="19304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19304" title="Réunion">
Réunion

Réunion () is an island of France. It is also a region of France and an overseas department of France, meaning France owns the island nation. It is in the Indian Ocean east of Madagascar, about 200 km (125 miles) southwest of Mauritius. Its capital is Saint-Denis. The highest point in La Reunion is La piton des neiges. The island is also famous for its black beaches, even though people think that there are white beaches. The island is 63 kilometres (39 mi) long; 45 kilometres (28 mi) wide; and covers 2,512 square kilometres (970 sq mi). It is similar to the island Hawaii as both are above hotspots in the Earth's crust.
The Piton de la Fournaise, a shield volcano on the eastern end of Réunion Island, rises more than 2,631 metres (8,632 ft) above sea level and is sometimes called a sister to Hawaiian volcanoes because of the similarity of climate and volcanic nature. It has erupted more than 100 times since 1640 and is under constant monitoring. It most recently erupted on 2 January 2010. [10] Before that, the most noticeable was during April 2007, when the lava flow was estimated at 3,000,000 cubic metres (3,900,000 cu yd) per day. [11] The Piton de la Fournaise is created by a hotspot volcano, which also created the Piton des Neiges and the islands of Mauritius and Rodrigues.
The Piton des Neiges volcano, the highest point on the island at 3,070 metres (10,070 ft) above sea level, is northwest of the Piton de la Fournaise. Collapsed calderas and canyons are southwest of the mountain. Like Kohala on the Big Island of Hawaii, the Piton des Neiges is an extinct volcano. Despite its name, snow (French: neige) practically never falls on the summit.

</doc>
<doc id="19306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19306" title="Lake Erie">
Lake Erie

Lake Erie is one of the Great Lakes in North America. It is the second to the last in the Great Lake system before water flows into the St. Lawrence River. Like Lake Superior, Lake Huron, and Lake Ontario, Lake Erie is part of the boundary between the USA and Canada.
Most of the water that flows into Lake Erie flows through a small river, the Detroit River, that moves water down from Lake St. Clair past Detroit, Michigan. Some more water flows into Lake Erie from other rivers, including the Maumee and the Cuyahoga. At the foot of the Maumee is Toledo, Ohio. At the bend of the Cuyahoga is Cleveland, Ohio.
Water that flows out of Lake Erie flows past Buffalo, New York, and into the Niagara falls. On its way down to Lake Ontario, the Niagara River pours over Niagara Falls, one of the largest waterfalls in North America, and then into the lowest of all the Great Lakes, Lake Ontario. 

</doc>
<doc id="19308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19308" title="Mali">
Mali

Mali is a landlocked country (a country entirely enclosed by land) in West Africa. Mali borders Algeria to the north, Niger on the east, Burkina Faso and the Côte d'Ivoire on the south, Guinea on the south-west, and Senegal and Mauritania on the west. Physical features of Mali include the Sahara desert in the north, with the Niger River and Sénégal River in the southern part of the country. As of a July 2011 estimate, Mali has a population of approximately 14,000,000 people. Mali has a total area of . Most of the people live in the southern part of the country, with Mali's capital and most populated city being Bamako.
Mandé people founded several kingdoms in Sahel. This was a big area that includes Mali. These kingdoms included the Ghana Empire, the Mali Empire, and the Songhai Empire. Timbuktu was an important city in these empires because a lot of trade across the Sahara Desert went there. Timbuktu was also a good place for learning. The Songhai Empire became smaller after a Moroccan attack in 1591.
France invaded Mali in 1880. After that, France owned Mali. The colony's names were "French Sudan" and the "Sudanese Republic". At some times it also included other nearby countries. In early 1959, Mali and Senegal united and they became the Mali Federation. This became independent from France on June 20, 1960. Senegal left the Mali Federation a few months later. The Republic of Mali, with Modibo Keïta as the first president, left the French Community on September 22, 1960.
There was a coup in Mali in 1968. Modibo Keïta lost his job and was put in prison. Mali was then ruled by Moussa Traoré until 1991. There was another coup in 1991 after protests against the government, and a new constitution was made. The leader of the country was then Amadou Toumani Touré. In 1992, Alpha Oumar Konaré won Mali's first democratic election. President Konaré won again in 1997 and he made big political and economic changes. In 2002, Amadou Toumani Touré won the election and he started his second term as head of state. He was a retired general and he had been the military leader of the 1991 coup. Today, Mali is one of the most politically and socially stable countries in Africa.
Mali is divided into 8 regions and 1 district. The country is further divided into 49 cercles, containing 288 "arrondissements" and 703 communes.
The regions and district are:
Mali is the world's 24th-largest country. It has 1,240,000 km² (478,734 mi²) of land. It has a similar size to South Africa, and it is two times bigger than Texas.
Mali is landlocked; it has no access to sea. It has dry weather. It does not have many mountains. There are flat areas in the north, which are covered by sand, and there is savanna around the Niger River in the south. Most of Mali is in the Sahara Desert, so there is a hot, dusty haze in dry seasons. There are many natural resources in Mali, including Gold, uranium, phosphates, kaolinite, salt and limestone.
Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world. 65% of its land area is desert or something similar. There were several long droughts there over the last hundred years. Therefore, most economic activity is near the Niger River. About 10% of the people are nomads and 80% of workers have jobs in farming and fishing. Industry is mainly to process farm products. Women also do pottery and the pots are bought and taken to markets. Many foreign tourists like the traditional methods which the women use to make the pots. Mali's main export is cotton, so if the price of cotton changes, Mali's economy is affected a lot. Mali also receives a lot of financial help from other countries. In 1997, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommended a programme for changing the economy and the government followed this. Several international companies started digging for larger amounts of gold in 1996-1998, and the government thinks that Mali will become an important gold exporter soon.
Malinese people are from the racial groups below.
The religions below are followed in Mali.
About 90% of people from Mali follow Sunni Islam, but they do not always forget their traditional religions. Muslims have their own schooling system. The number of Muslims from Mali who travel to Mecca is increasing and some study in Arab countries. About 1% of the people are Christians. When Mali was under French control, Christian were sent to Islamic areas.
The language of Mali under French rule was French, but now not many people outside towns can read or write this language. However, about 60% of the people use other languages well. Many people can read and write in (the most popular spoken language). This language has its own alphabet, called . Other people can read and write in Arabic, after going to an Islamic school. One of the oldest universities in the world is Sankore University in Timbuktu. It began in the 1400s.
Famous musicians from Mali include kora player Toumani Diabaté, and the guitarist Ali Farka Touré, who has died.

</doc>
<doc id="19310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19310" title="Chief Joseph">
Chief Joseph

Chief Joseph (1840 – September 21, 1904; whose real name was Hinmaton-Yalaktit) was the chief of the Nez Perce Native Americans, a tribe that lived in what is now the Pacific Northwest of the United States. 
His father was the leader of the Nez-Perce before him, and his mother was a member of this tribe too.
When Joseph was young, his father always told him not to trust white men, he actually had problems with settlers. When his father died, Joseph became chief of the tribe, who resided in plateaus in Northeast Oregon, Southeast Washington and Western Idaho.
The turning point in their relationship to white men was the gold rush in 1863. It gave the US Government the opportunity to reduce their reservation to a small area in Idaho. Then, with the new waves of white men settling in the West, the Government wanted to drive Nez-Perces away from their territory.
Chief Joseph was extremely sad: this place was the tribe's territory where their ancestors were buried. In spite of that, he wanted to avoid conflict and remain in peace. In 1873 he decided to negotiate with the US Government. He travelled all the way to Washington D.C. and spoke to President Ulysses S. Grant. But he only got mean looks and little attention.
So a war began in 1877. The living conditions of Chief Joseph's tribe were awful: they had no food and no blankets. Some people were freezing to death. But the Nez-Perces impressed their enemy thanks to all the battles they won. Many men died on both sides. That's why Joseph decided to surrender. He gave up fighting in 1877.
He was destroyed by the death of his people, and also extremely disappointed: he felt betrayed by white people. He knew he could not trust them anymore. He was tired of being considered a savage. He felt it was not fair for people who were born on the same land to be treated differently. He delivered a lot of speeches on this subject, which are still really good examples of eloquence. But he did not feel listened to, and when he died in his reservation in 1904, the doctor said he "died from sadness". He was buried in Colville Native American Burial Ground, in Washington State.

</doc>
<doc id="19315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19315" title="Seychelles">
Seychelles

Seychelles is an African country in the Indian Ocean. Its capital city is Victoria. The official languages are Creole, English, and French.
The country is to the east of the African continent. The islands of Madagascar and Mauritius lie to the south. The republic is made up of 115 islands. The biggest part of the population is a mix of freed slaves from the African Continent and Madagascar and European settlers. They make up about 90%. There are small minorities of immigrants from Europe, China and India. Most people are Roman Catholics, about 90% of them. About 8% are Protestants.
Other nearby island countries and territories include Zanzibar to the west, Mauritius, Rodrigues, Agalega and Réunion to the south, and Comoros and Mayotte to the southwest. Seychelles has an estimated population of 86,525. It is the smallest population of any African state.
Seychelles is to the northeast of Madagascar and about east of Kenya. The number of islands in the archipelago is often given as 115 but the Constitution of the Republic of Seychelles lists 155. 
According to the president of Nauru, the Seychelles has been ranked the ninth most endangered nation due to flooding from climate change.
Some of the cities in Seychelles include: Anse Boileau, Takamaka and Cote D’Or.
Seychelles is divided into twenty-five administrative regions. Eight of the districts make up the capital of Seychelles. They are called Greater Victoria. Another 14 districts are considered the rural part of the main island of Mahé. There are two districts on Praslin and one on La Digue which also include satellite islands. The rest of the Outer Islands are not considered part of any district.
During the plantation era, cinnamon, vanilla, and copra were the main exports. In the 1960s, about 33% of the working population worked at plantations, and 20% worked in the public or government sector. In 1971, with the opening of Seychelles International Airport, tourism became a serious industry. 
Like many fragile island ecosystems, the Seychelles had loss of biodiversity during early human history. This included the disappearance of most of the giant tortoises from the granitic islands. There was also the extinction of species such as the chestnut flanked white eye, the Seychelles Parakeet, the Seychelles Black Terrapin and the saltwater crocodile. However, extinctions were far fewer than on islands such as Mauritius or Hawaii. This was partly due to a shorter period of human occupation being only since 1770. The Seychelles today is known for success stories in protecting its flora and fauna. The rare Seychelles Black Parrot, the national bird of the country, is now protected.
The granitic islands of Seychelles are home to about 75 endemic plant species. There are a further 25 or so species in the Aldabra group. Particularly well-known is the Coco de Mer, a species of palm that grows only on the islands of Praslin and neighbouring Curieuse. The jellyfish tree is to be found in only a few locations on Mahe. This strange and ancient plant is in a genus of its own (Medusagynaceae). Other unique plant species include the Wright's Gardenia "Rothmannia annae" found only on Aride Island Special Reserve.
The freshwater crab genus "Seychellum" is endemic to the granitic Seychelles. There are a further 26 species of crabs and 5 species of hermit crabs that live on the islands.
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise now lives on many of the islands of the Seychelles. The Aldabra population is the largest in the world. These unique reptiles can be found even in captive herds. 
There are several unique varieties of orchids on the Islands.
The marine life around the islands, especially the more remote coral islands, can be spectacular. More than 1,000 species of fish have been recorded. Since the use of spearguns and dynamite for fishing was banned in the 1960s, the wildlife is unafraid of snorkelers and divers. Coral bleaching in 1998 has damaged most reefs, but some reefs show healthy recovery.
The main natural resources of the Seychelles are fish, copra, cinnamon, coconuts, salt and iron.

</doc>
<doc id="19316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19316" title="Square mile">
Square mile

A square mile (sometimes written "mi²" ) is an American unit of measurement of area. It is the area inside a square that has each side equal to one statute mile (5,280 feet or 1,760 yards). This way of talking about area is often used to say how much land there is on a farm, or in a city or country, for example.
One square mile is just less than 2.6 square kilometres.

</doc>
<doc id="19317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19317" title="Regions of Peru">
Regions of Peru

A Region is the name for one of 25 areas into which the land is divided in Peru. 
Provinces of Peru
    *     Lima Province (Lima)

</doc>
<doc id="19320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19320" title="Ica Region">
Ica Region

Ica is one of 25 regions of Peru. The capital of the region is Ica.

</doc>
<doc id="19322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19322" title="Category:Peru">
Category:Peru

These articles are about the country Peru.

</doc>
<doc id="19324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19324" title="Togo">
Togo

Togo is a small country in Africa. It is between Benin and Ghana on the western coast. The capital is Lomé. About 6.7 million people live there. Official language is French.
Togo left French rule in 1960s. The Togolese general, Gnassingbe Eyadema became the military ruler in 1967. President Eyedema was replaced by his son, Faure Gnassingbe, after his death in 2005.
The economy of this small African country is based on agriculture. Agriculture provides jobs for 65% of the labor force according to the CIA Factbook. Agricultural products include coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans, rice, millet, and sorghum. Industries include phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement, handicrafts, textiles, and beverages. Togo's economy is primarily agricultural.
Togo is divided into 5 regions. The regions are divided into 30 prefectures and 1 commune. From north to south the regions are Savanes, Kara, Centrale, Plateaux and Maritime.
The largest cities in Togo are:
About 51% of the population has local beliefs, 29% is Christian, and 20% Muslim.
The Togolese enjoy many foods including tropical fruits, pastries, and many different products made from peanuts. Major drinks include tea, coffee, and wine. Togolese often snack on plantains and French donuts or beignets.

</doc>
<doc id="19326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19326" title="Bad Religion">
Bad Religion

Bad Religion is an American band that plays punk rock music. They were created in Southern California in 1979 by Jay Bentley (bass), Greg Graffin (vocals), Brett Gurewitz (guitars) and Jay Ziskrout (drums). People think that they brought back punk rock and helped pop-punk bands during the late 1980s. Since they were created 30 years ago, Bad Religion has had a lot of members come and go. Greg Graffin is the only person that's been in the band the whole time but today there are three of the four members that were in the group when it started.
Today, Bad Religion has fourteen studio albums, two EPs, three compilation albums, one live recording, and two DVDs. Some critics think that their 1988 album "Suffer" is one of the most important punk rock albums of all time. People began to notice Bad Religion after their 1993 album "Recipe for Hate", which was number 14 on Billboard's Heatseekers chart. Their next album, "Stranger Than Fiction", had the band's well-known hits "21st Century (Digital Boy)" and "Infected", did well and was the only Bad Religion album to get gold status in the US. Brett Gurewitz left in 1994. Bad Religion was not as well known after that and did not sell many albums until "The Process of Belief" in 2002. Brett Gurewitz came back in 2001, and worked with them on their four most recent albums. The band is planning to make another album in 2012.
They are known for their smart use of style, comparisons, word choice, imagery, and voice harmonies (which they call "oozin aahs.) Lyrics sometimes have to do with their emotions or their opinion of society.
Most of Bad Religion's lyrics are written by Greg Graffin or Brett Gurewitz. Sometimes, but often, they will co-write a song. Other band members, such as Jay Bentley, also write songs, but very rarely.
Brett Gurewitz says he tried to copy The Germs singer Darby Crash early on in Bad Religion's career. "He wrote some intelligent stuff, and didn't shy away from the vocabulary, which I thought was cool." Bad Religion also uses voice harmonies. The Adolescents influenced them with their three-part voice harmonies. Bassist Jay Bentley says, "Seeing The Adolescents live, it was so brilliant. So, in a way, the Adolescents influenced us into saying we can do it too, because look, they're doing it."
Many of Bad Religion's songs are about what they think are social problems, but they do not blame causes of these problems to any single person or group. Greg Graffin thinks that the politics in the United States can make it hard to talk about the problems.
The band is sometimes direct about the things they want to say. Brett Gurewitz said he was angry at former U.S. president George W. Bush and that "The Empire Strikes First" is about him. "Our whole album is dedicated to getting Bush out of office. I'm not a presidential scholar but I don't think you'll find a worse president in the history of the United States. He's probably one of the worst leaders in the history of world leaders. I just hate the guy."
Despite the name of the band, the members say they are not anti-religious. Greg Graffin says that more often than not, the band likes to use religion to represent anything that does not let a person be free. Their songs are more about being against everyone being the same than against religion or God. But Greg Graffin is an atheist. He helped write the book 'Is Belief in God Good, Bad or Irrelevant?' The band's bassist Jay Bentley has stated that he has spiritual beliefs. Brett Gurewitz is a "provisional deist."

</doc>
<doc id="19327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19327" title="Meat Puppets">
Meat Puppets

The Meat Puppets are an alternative/punk rock group from Scottsdale, Arizona, USA. They were formed in 1980 by Curt Kirkwood (vocals, guitars), his brother Cris (bass) and Derrick Bostrom (drums). The band is probably best known for their 1994 radio hit "Backwater".
The band went on indefinite hiatus in 2001 as Curt formed two band projects Eyes Adrift (with Nirvana bassist Krist Novoselic and Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh) and Volcano (also with Sublime drummer Bud Gaugh). He also released a solo album. His brother Cris was in prison from August 2004 to 21 months.
In 2006, the Meat Puppets reformed and released a new album, "Rise to Your Knees" in 2007.
As of November 2009, Shandon Sahm is back as the drummer in the Meat Puppets. He replaces Ted Marcus, who was a member from 2006. 
The band was chosen by Animal Collective to perform their album "Up on the Sun" live at the All Tomorrow's Parties music festival in May 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="19328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19328" title="Ted Bundy">
Ted Bundy

Theodore Robert "Ted" Bundy (November 24, 1946 - January 24, 1989) was an American serial killer, kidnapper and rapist. He killed over 30 people, perhaps as many as over 100, before being arrested and executed.
Ted Bundy was born in 1946 in Burlington, Vermont, USA. He lived with his mother Louise Cowell and grandfather Sam Cowell when he was a child. Bundy and his mother moved to Washington where she married a man named John Culpepper Bundy. As a child in Washington, Bundy was a good student and went to church often, yet he found it hard to make friends and he began stealing. As a young man Bundy became involved in politics and proposed to a woman that he had dated in high school. He left her a few days later and then went on to begin his murders. The people that Bundy would murder were much like this lady: young, white skinned (Caucasian) and with long dark hair parted in the middle.
Bundy's first known murders were in 1974 with his first known violent attack on January 4 when he crept into the room of an 18 year old girl called Joni Lenz and beat her with a crowbar while she was asleep. He then sexually assaulted (raped) her with a metal rod that he took from the bed. She was found the next morning in a pool of blood. She was not killed but would remain in a coma (a permanent sleep) and suffered brain damage (damage to the brain that stop the body from working properly). A few weeks later on January 31 Bundy broke into another woman's basement and beat her over the head. He then dressed her, wrapped her in blankets and carried her away. She was found a year later in Seattle, Washington with no head. In between this time and June, 1974 he killed eight more women in Washington. In June he kidnapped Janice Ott and Denise Naslund from a park near Seattle. These attacks, unlike the attacks before, were in 'broad daylight'; in front of other people.
In the autumn Bundy moved to Utah to begin studying law at a college there called the University of Utah. He began killing again in October. Bundy kidnapped and killed three girls in October of 1974, one of them was the daughter of a police officer. On November 8 Bundy told a girl that he was a police officer and he told her to get in his car. She did, believing he really was a police officer. He then tried to handcuff her but she would not let him and she jumped out of the car and escaped. Bundy was angry that she had got away and so a few hours later he kidnapped another girl and killed her. Her body was never found. Bundy was still living in Utah in 1975 and was still attending law school but he began only killing people in Colorado. Bundy kidnapped and killed four women from Colorado and one more from Utah in the first half of 1975 (January to June).
On August 16, 1975 Bundy was arrested for not stopping his car when ordered to by a police officer. When they searched his car they found a ski mask, a crowbar, handcuffs, trash bags and other items that they thought he must have been using to burglarize houses. The police then noticed that his car was the car the girl who escaped had told them about. Bundy was sentenced on March 1, 1976, to fifteen years in prison for kidnapping her. Bundy escaped from the police twice in 1977 before he could be sentenced for the murders he had committed. By early 1978 he had made his way to Florida where he killed two more women and injured three others. After that he murdered a 12 year old girl called Kimberley Leach. She was the last girl murdered by Bundy as he was stopped by a police officer on February 15, 1978.
Bundy had antisocial personality disorder. He went on trial on June 25 until July 31 for the murders he had committed. He was sentenced to death by the electric chair. In the time he was in prison and waiting to be executed he helped the police investigate other murders and in 1988 he admitted to having killed eight more women than he was tried for. Bundy was executed by electric chair in Florida State Prison on January 24, 1989. He was 42 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="19329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19329" title="Longboarding">
Longboarding

Longboarding is a form of skateboarding. Instead of using a "normal"-sized board, the longboarder uses a board that is generally longer than a skateboard, hence the name; longboards can range from 33.5" all the way up to 42" (there are some cases in which boards can be a lot longer all the way up to 60+"). Longboarding was invented by Milterz.Instead of skating on ramps and half-pipes, the longboarder can skate down long and steep hills, turning ("carving") back and forth across the hill's face to slow down, as a skier would. The longboard is also much more efficient for "cruising", or, simply getting around, as longboards typically are faster, more stable, and less tiring to propel than short ("freestyle", i.e., trick) boards. Unlike a bicycle, a longboard is less vulnerable to theft, as one's board may be carried under one's arm, or stashed in a coat closet at work.
Advanced longboarders may be seen "sliding" (skidding sideways) to slow their boards on really steep hills. Special gloves incorporating a hockey-puck-like friction pad velcroed to the palm may be worn, which assists in both balance and braking, allowing one hand to be dragged on the ground. A lot of longbarders just make their own gloves, from sections of sliced-up cutting board epoxied to the palm and fingers of work gloves. On narrow, terribly steep hills (such as in San Francisco, for example), there's not enough room to carve back and forth to keep one's speed down, and "bombing" (dashing downhill) similarly could result in an accident or uncontrollably high speed, and so sliding was invented by a California surfer. sliding is a difficult and advanced method of slowing a board, though. While learning the slide, full pads and a helmet are a must. During more ordinary city commuting, the easiest (and first) braking skill one learns is simply to drag the toe or heel of one's rear foot on the ground. The trucks (swivelling axles) of a longboard turn far more freely than that of a freestyle board.
One good way to learn how to ride a longboard is to find a roomy, smooth flat area, a plaza or parking lot, say, and to just cruise around. Once the longboarder is feeling good and loose, warmed-up, then he should take that rear foot been pushing with, and try coasting without placing it back on the rear of the deck. Just coast, and notice how he actually can steer the board with one foot. Notice, too, that one can go much faster if one keeps his body's weight balanced above the foot that remains on the board. By pumping with the arms and pushing only with the ball of the driving foot, one go much faster (and prevent ankle injuries). If one finds himself slamming his driving foot down on the pavement, he will probably be in need of a rest. Now he is ready to carve. Carving is an action in which the rider leans back and forth slowing them down.
most longboarders go down mountains and hills. unlike skateboarding, longboarding aren't to good for tricks all though one can still do them. 

</doc>
<doc id="19330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19330" title="Graffiti">
Graffiti

Graffiti is marks, scratchings or drawings made on a surface on a public place. It is often created with paint or spray paint (paint that is sprayed from a can). A single mark could be called a graffito but the word graffiti is usually used, meaning that there is more than 1 mark.
Graffiti can take the form of art, drawings or words. When done without a property owner's permission it is considered vandalism. Sometimes it is just a person's name or a rude word. Sometimes it is as a public political protest.
Graffiti has been found in very old cities. For example, in the Roman Empire, people wrote messages and drew caricatures on walls. Graffiti is also found in many places. Some of people do murals of graffiti rather than just writing one mark in a location. It was used for good instead of vandalism. Probably the simplest graffiti is when a person cuts (or carves) the name of a lover on a tree with a knife.
Today, many graffiti are very complicated mixtures of writing and pictures. They are sometimes made by gangs and applied with spray-paint to buildings, bridges, street signs, and other areas. These are often signed with a "tag" (in graffiti slang, a signature), which is a shape special to an artist or group.
Graffiti can be thought of as a part of hip hop or street protest. It is often but not always illegal. Some cities have small areas where graffiti can be made. Sometimes graffiti are very beautiful. Some people consider graffiti as not only something bad, but something good, like art. Some people pay graffiti artists to do graffiti on their buildings. In the 1980s, some graffiti artists like Keith Haring became very famous. 
Modern graffiti was made famous in New York City in the early 1970s by the children of the working class. They called it "writing," and called themselves "writers." In a 1971 New York Times article, the term "graffiti" was first used to refer to the new urban art explosion that was becoming popular in New York City. This period of the early 1970s is known as the "Original School." Later in the 1980s, the next generation of graffiti artists is known as "Old School." 

</doc>
<doc id="19337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19337" title="Appellation d'origine contrôlée">
Appellation d'origine contrôlée

Appellation d'origine controlée (AOC) is a French phrase which shows that a product comes from a certain area. 
Some products must come from a certain area and be made in a certain way in order to have the name of the product. The most famous example is champagne, which must be fermented in the bottle and be made in the Champagne region. 
The French government set up the "Institut national des appellations d'origine et de la qualité" (INAO) in 1935 to oversee the system. Although usually linked with wines, the start of the system of protecting the name of goods started in the 15th century when the French parliament defined what could be called Roquefort cheese. 
AOCs are most often found in connection with:

</doc>
<doc id="19342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19342" title="Distillation">
Distillation

Distillation is a chemical process where a mixture made of two or more liquids (called "components") with different boiling points can be separated from each other. The mixture is heated until one of the components boils (turns to a vapor). The vapor is then fed into a condenser, which cools the vapour and changes it back into a liquid that is called "distillate'.
What remains in the original container is called the "residue". A fractionating column (that is a distillation column with more than two outlets) can be used to improve the separation.
An oil refinery uses fractional distillation to purify crude oil so that it can become useful and can be used for various things. 
This has been used for a long time, to distil alcohol and produce distilled beverages. Distillation is a commonly used operation in many industries.
Distillation can be done anywhere, whether it's in a house or a laboratory, but in most countries it is illegal to distil alcohol without a license. Illegally distilled alcoholic drinks are called "moonshine".
Sometimes the desalination of water is called also "distillation", but this is a different process. In fact water distillation is used to separate a liquid (water) from solids (salts), instead the alcohol distillation is used to separate two liquids (alcohol and water).

</doc>
<doc id="19345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19345" title="Lawyer">
Lawyer

A lawyer (also called an "advocate", "attorney", "barrister", "counsel", "counsellor", or "solicitor") is someone who practices law. A lawyer has earned a degree in law, and has a license to practice law in a particular area. 
If people have any problem regarding the law, they can contact a lawyer for advice. A legal problem is referred to as a case. A person can hire a lawyer to start a case against someone else, or to help with a case that has been started against them. If the case goes to court, the lawyer will represent their client in court. The lawyer will use their knowledge of the law to convince the court that the client is on the right side of the argument. Lawyers also help people "settle out of court," which means that both sides of the argument agree to a punishment ahead of time so that they will not have to go to trial. 
When a person is accused of a crime, the person has a defense lawyer to try to show they have not committed a crime. The lawyer arguing that they did do the crime is called the "prosecutor".
Lawyers also prepare legal documents for their clients. Examples: buying or selling property or making a will (testament). Certain lawyers (called "commissioners of oaths" in England) can take legally binding witness statements which can be presented to the court.
Lawyers work in different settings. Some work by themselves, while some work in law firms. Some lawyers work for hospitals and private companies. Lawyers who work for private companies are usually called in-house counsel.
Lawyers generally charge a fee for the work that they do, but sometimes advice is offered freely, which is called "pro bono," meaning "for the public good." In many countries, if a person is accused of a crime and unable to pay for a lawyer, the government will pay a lawyer to represent them using tax money.

</doc>
<doc id="19347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19347" title="Loreto Region">
Loreto Region

Loreto is Peru's most northern region. Covering almost one-third of Peru's territory, Loreto is the nation's biggest region. It is also one of the least populated ones, because of its remote location in the Amazon rainforest. Its capital is the city of Iquitos. 
The region is divided into eight provinces ("provincias", singular: "provincia"), which are composed of 53 districts ("distritos", singular: "distrito"). The provinces, with their capitals in parenthesis, are:

</doc>
<doc id="19349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349" title="Iquitos">
Iquitos

Iquitos is the capital city of the Loreto Region in northern Peru. It is on the banks of the Amazon River. Iquitos is the biggest city in the rain forest of Peru, with about 400,000 residents. It is a major port on the Amazon. 
Excluding towns on islands, Iquitos is thought to be the largest city in the world that can not be reached by road. One can only get to Iquitos by boat, or by airplane. It is very remote, in the middle of the Amazon rainforest. 
Iquitos was founded in 1747 by Jesuit José Bahamonde. Originally it was the home of the Iquito native tribe. About 100 years ago, Iquitos was a very rich town, because of the rubber industry. Today Iquitos relies mostly on tourism, wood industry and local trade. 

</doc>
<doc id="19351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19351" title="Apple juice">
Apple juice

Apple juice is the juice from apples. It does not have alcohol, and it tastes sweet from the natural fruit sugars. Many companies making apple juice like to say that they do not add more sugar into the drink, and there is only natural sugar.
The apple tree came from the same era as Elizabethan in the late 1500s and early 1600s ("Pyrus malus"), and is native to Britain. Even in the Old Saxon papers, apples and cider are mentioned a lot. The fruit is thought to have come in the Caucasus, a place with many mountains between the Black and Caspian Seas.
The Lady apple, a kind of apple still grown today, is believed to be one of the oldest apple trees on record.
In both facts and stories, the apple appears to be very healthy. There are two types of apple juice. One is the clear apple juice, and the other is the cloudy apple juice. Pectin and starch are taken out during the production process to produce clear apple juice. Cloudy apple juice is cloudy because of evenly-distributed small pulp suspensions in the juice concentrate.
Also, in apple juice, the vitamin C, and other vitamins are contained inside, as well as mineral nutrients such as boron which helps build strong bones. Research from the University of Massachusetts Lowell shows that apple juice also increases acetylcholine in the brain, which gets you increased memory.
Apples can also be a main source of fiber, and is a powerful cleanser and an important necessity for the health of your body.
The compounds in apple juice called phytonutrients delay the break down of LDL or cholesterol. In history, the phrase from Benjamin Franklin "an apple a day keeps the doctor away" is very famous. New research is proving this phrase to be a fact. Researchers at UC Davis School of Medicine have recently found out that drinking apple juice seems to slow down the process that may lead to heart disease.
Researchers at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands had studied and found that smokers who ate many fruits and vegetables, especially apples, had reduced their risk of getting the common diseases smokers would get. The risk was reduced by 50%.
For older people, drinking fruit juices should begin with apples, especially if they are suffering from arthritis and rheumatism. This is because apples carry a substantial amount of potassium. Because of this, eating apples or apple juice has been known to help. Drinking apple juice also removes some toxins from the liver and kidneys and is low in calories. Over time, this can reduce the chances of having liver or kidney disease.
Apple juice can be used to make cider and calvados. Some types of cider and all types of Calvados contain alcohol.
Addressed as one of the most popular fruits in the world, the apple is cultivated in around 7,500 different kinds in shape, color, texture, firmness, crispness, acidity, juiciness, sweetness, nutrition, and harvesting time.

</doc>
<doc id="19357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19357" title="Calvados (drink)">
Calvados (drink)

Calvados is an alcoholic drink. It is made from distilling cider in Normandy, one of the oldest Provinces of France (created in 911). It got its name from the place called Calvados which is famous for making it (sometimes called 'le Pays d'Auge'). It is also made in the other places in Normandy including la Manche (Cotentin) and l'Orne (Domfront).
The way to make Calvados is to distil cider twice. The first time it is done, the result is a liquid containing 28% to 30% alcohol. The second time it is done, the amount of alcohol is increased to about 40%.
Since 1942, the Calvados has its own "Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée (AOC)", which means it is from one place. The rules are:
The Calvados can be served either dry or with ice, as a cocktail, an aperitif, or as a digestif. It goes very well with cheese, chocolate, dessert or ice-cream. You can also eat your crepes with calvados.
The Calvados can also be added to coffee. People usually do this at the end of dinner. 

</doc>
<doc id="19358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19358" title="Still">
Still

A still is a tool used to clean a liquid. It does this by first boiling the liquid and turning it into a gas. This gas is then cooled, changing it back into liquid. Stills get their name from the word di"still"ation. Distillation is the process of boiling and cooling a liquid to purify it. Stills are most often used to create alcohol, but they can also be used with any liquid. Some examples are medicines and perfumes.
There are two main types of stills: pot stills and reflux stills. In a pot still, the pot (like a large kettle) holding the liquid is heated. The hot gas is cooled in a simple neck, or tube, and collected. Pot stills are used for making alcohol like whisky. A reflux still is much more complex. It works with a continual flow of liquid going into the boiler, and a continual flow of distilled liquid coming out. The distilled liquid can also be put through the process several times, which is why it is called a reflux still. This allows for a more pure product, and the person working the still can control the level of purity. Reflux stills are used in the chemical and petroleum industries.

</doc>
<doc id="19360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19360" title="Ravioli">
Ravioli

Ravioli is a type of Italian pasta dish. It is usually two layers of pasta dough with a filling between the two layers. There are many different recipes, with different kinds of fillings. The most common fillings are meat, vegetables or ricotta cheese. People eat this kind of food with a sauce or melted butter.

</doc>
<doc id="19361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19361" title="The Bridge on the River Kwai">
The Bridge on the River Kwai

The Bridge on the River Kwai is a British 1957 movie from Columbia Pictures, based on Pierre Boulle's 1952 book "The Bridge over the River Kwai" (). The movie was mainly filmed in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) and also in England.
In 1941 the Japanese Army invaded Thailand. They built a railway to link Bangkok to Rangoon. Thousands of Asian workers and POWs (prisoners of war) died while working on the project. Part of this project was building bridges over Thailand's Kwai Yai, at a place named Tamarkan, which is near a town named Kanchanaburi. 
The deaths of the Asian workers and the prisoners were real events, but most of the book and the movie are not true. The British soldiers were slaves; they did not help the Japanese. Two bridges were built; one was made of wood, one was made of concrete and steel. Both bridges stood for two years and were destroyed by bombers in 1945.
In the movie the bridge is destroyed by commandos. A real train rode over the bridge as it blew up. (This can be compared to a scene in the 1927 movie, "The General", which starred Buster Keaton.)
The movie is best known for the "Colonel Bogey March", the song that is whistled by the POWs. It is also known as the "River Kwai March".
The movie won seven Academy Awards, one for Best Picture. It also won the BAFTA Award for Best British Screenplay.

</doc>
<doc id="19362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19362" title="Tannin">
Tannin

Tannins are bitter-tasting chemical compounds that bind proteins. 
Tannins are present in the following:
Tannins are also used in the treatment of leather, to make it more durable.

</doc>
<doc id="19363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19363" title="Cuisine">
Cuisine

Cuisine refers to any style of cooking, including its practices, traditions and recipes. A cuisine is usually associated with a specific culture. It is mainly influenced by the ingredients that are available to that culture. Cooking methods, customs and ingredients together form meals that are unique to a particular region. When people talk about Italian cuisine, they are referring to the food that Italians are famous for. Cuisine is a French word that means "kitchen", but it originally comes from the Latin word "coquere", which means "to cook". 
Traditionally, cuisines are shaped by a number of things. In some religious traditions, certain foods are forbidden by law (an example is in Judaism). Climate and trade affect the what ingredients are available. Climate may also affect the methods by which food is prepared. Before the exploration of Asia and America by Europeans, certain foods were not known to European cuisine. Tomatoes, maize, avocados and cacao, for example, did not enter European diets until merchants brought these ingredients back from the New World. In modern times, cuisines are becoming more and more multicultural. New cuisines continue to develop even today.

</doc>
<doc id="19364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19364" title="Hotel">
Hotel

A hotel or a guest-house is a large building with many rooms, where people can sleep when they are not at home. A motel is a hotel especially for motorists - people who drive cars - where the room door usually opens into the parking lot. Inn is sometimes used to mean a smaller hotel. 
These places will rent a room for any number of days. They offer rooms to sleep, and want money for the service. There are also hotels where conferences are held.

</doc>
<doc id="19365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19365" title="Some Like It Hot">
Some Like It Hot

Some Like It Hot is a 1959 American comedy movie starring Marilyn Monroe and Jack Lemmon, and directed by Billy Wilder. It is seen by some as a remake of a German movie from 1951, called "Fanfaren der Liebe". (Michael Logan wrote the story for this version as well as the 1959 movie.)
"Some Like It Hot" is set in 1929. It has been remade for the stage twice (in 1972 and 2002).
The movie was ranked at Number One on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list and fourteen on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.

</doc>
<doc id="19370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19370" title="Yale University">
Yale University

Yale University is a private university in New Haven, Connecticut. It is in the Ivy League and considered by many people to be one of the best universities in the world. Yale is the third-oldest university in the United States.
Yale was founded in 1701 in a town near New Haven by a group of church ministers. At first, it was called "The Collegiate School" and it was a school to teach male church ministers in Connecticut. When Elihu Yale, a businessman with the East India Company, gave the school money and books in 1718, the school changed its name to Yale College. It moved into the center of New Haven in the same year. About fifty years later, the school began to teach other subjects to students, like science and history. As the school became more liberal, it became one of the first American schools where extracurricular student groups were created, especially singing groups, sports teams, and student publications like the Yale Daily News. 
In the beginning, Yale only taught undergraduate students. Over time, it created graduate schools for medicine, nursing, environmental science, law, music, drama, business, and other professions. In 1869, Yale became the first school in the United States to offer a PhD. Because it had grown to have many types of schools, degrees, and courses, Yale changed its name to Yale University in 1887. The undergraduate college began to accept women as students in 1969. 
Yale has one of the largest libraries in the United States, with 19 library buildings and over 15 million books. The school's main library building, Sterling Memorial Library, is built to look like a cathedral. The Beinecke Library has one of the world's largest collections of rare books and manuscripts. 
The school's campus is known for its Gothic Revival architecture, which was built to look like older English universities like Oxford and Cambridge. On its main campus, Yale has two art museums, a natural history museum, and many theaters. The university also has a golf course near campus and owns five forests in New England. 
Fifty-two Nobel Prize winners have been students or professors at Yale, and five U.S. presidents have graduated from Yale, including George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush. Other famous alumni include politicians Hilary Clinton and John Kerry, actors Meryl Streep and Edward Norton, inventors Eli Whitney and Samuel Morse, CNN anchors Fareed Zakaria and Anderson Cooper, FedEx founder Fred Smith and Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi, and computer scientist Grace Hopper. 
Yale's color is blue, and its mascot is a bulldog named "Handsome Dan." Its sports teams are called the Yale Bulldogs, and they play in the Ivy League. 
Peter Salovey, a psychologist, is the current president of Yale. 

</doc>
<doc id="19371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371" title="Salzburg">
Salzburg

Salzburg is the capital of the Austrian state of Salzburg or Salzburgerland. The population is about 150,000 and is the 4th largest city of Austria.
Its most famous citizen was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Another famous inhabitant of Salzburg was the physicist Christian Doppler who found the Doppler effect which was named after him. 
The Salzach river crosses the city. The old town was adopted by the UNESCO as World Heritage Site in 1996. Known is Salzburg also for being one of the settings for the movie "The Sound of Music" which based on the musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein.
People lived in Salzburg since the New Stone Age till present. The oldest finding in the city area is dated around 4500 B.C. From 15 B.C. onwards after the Roman occupation the city was called Iuvavum. The roman city was situated in today's old town around the Waagplatz. The city became an important place from the east to the province of Germania. The Romans left on the beginning of the barbarian migration around 500. Up to 696 only few can be said about the history. 696 the city was given to bishop Rupert by Duke Theodo II. of Bavaria. Rupert was orderd by the Duke to bring Christianity to the east and southeast of his country. Rupert founded the monastery St. Peter and for women the monastery Nonnberg. 739 Salzburg became the seat of a bishop and 774 the first cathedral was built. 998 Salzburg became archbishopric ruling the whole Bavarian area.
In the Middle Ages Salzburg became wealthy by the trade with salt from the nearby Dürnberg in Hallein. Till th 14th century Salzburg became independent from Bavaria and was a state within the Holy Roman Empire. The citizens of Salzburg were under the command of the archbishop unlike other cities in the empire. In the baroque era the look of today's city was shaped. The cathedral was rebuilt in the baroque style. Most of the architects came from Italy. 1622 a university was founded. Due to the fact that it was a catholic state Protestants had a severe standing in Salzburg. Yet 1731 Protestants, who came not back to the catholic belief had do leave Salzburg within eight days. 
In the early 19th century Napoleon Bonaparte promoted the Duchy of Salzburg, than later was a part of the Kingdom of Bavaria. Then, Salzburg was annexed by Austria, returned to Bavarian and divided between Bavaria and Austria. 1918 Salzburg became a federal state of the new Republic of Austria. In 1938 Germany annexed Austria and Salzburg was a part of Germany. In 1945, when Austria was independent from Germany, Salzburg became a federal state again.
Urban districts ("Stadtteile"):
Salzburg is a World Heritage. There are some places of interes like:
City Tours and Tour operators in Salzburg

</doc>
<doc id="19372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19372" title="Salt (disambiguation)">
Salt (disambiguation)

Salt could mean:

</doc>
