<doc id="144799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144799" title="ABC Kids (US)">
ABC Kids (US)

ABC Kids was a televisionprogramming block on the ABC television network. It broadcasted several different children's series. These series were all owned by Disney, which owns ABC. Most of them were also shown on Disney's own network Disney Channel. ABC Kids used to be called Disney's One Saturday Morning.
ABC Kids ended on August 27, 2011. On September 3, 2011 the block was replaced with "Litton's Weekend Adventure".
On September 13, 1997, "Disney's One Saturday Morning" started out as a two-hour block on the "ABC Saturday Morning" lineup, and aired some of the shows that aired on it. In 1999, it was extended to 5 hours. On September 6, 1999, a spin-off, "Disney's One Too", aired on UPN and in syndication every weekday in the morning or afternoon and Sunday morning. "One Saturday Morning"' last aired on September 7, 2002.
On September 14, 2002, Disney renamed "One Saturday Morning" to ABC Kids. The block originally contained new programs, but by the end, all of ABC Kids programs became repeats of Disney Channel originals.
"Power Rangers" was previously aired on Fox Kids until halfway through the "Wild Force" season, when "Power Rangers" moved to ABC Kids for the 2002 Fall season due to the Fox Family Channel/Saban Entertainment purchase by Disney in 2001. Starting with the episode "Unfinished Business", the remainder of the "Wild Force" season premiered on ABC Kids. During its time on both Fox Kids and ABC Kids the entire "Wild Force" season also reran later on ABC Family (in part both prior to the introduction of and during the ABC Family Action Block). The following "Ninja Storm" season also premiered on ABC Kids and then reran later on the ABC Family Action Block. The "Dino Thunder", "S.P.D.", "Mystic Force", "Operation Overdrive" and "Jungle Fury" seasons were all premiered on Jetix and then reran on ABC Kids. The "RPM" season and broadcasts of the first season of "Mighty Morphin", newly re-versioned, aired exclusively on ABC Kids.
"Power Rangers" ended its run on ABC Kids on August 28, 2010, nationwide due to Haim Saban having bought back the intellectual rights to the franchise from Disney and giving airing rights to Nickelodeon in May 2010. Airings ended slightly earlier on August 14, 2010, on West coast affiliates due to a two-week preemption caused by the 2010 Little League World Series and the E/I recovery that resulted from it. On September 4, 2010, the hour held by "Power Rangers" was returned to the local affiliates. After its completion on ABC Kids, "Power Rangers" moved to Nickelodeon. All new seasons (starting with the "Samurai" season) began to premiere on the main Nickelodeon channel on February 7, 2011. Repeats of new seasons and all previous seasons began airing on Nicktoons on February 11, 2011.
With the rise of federally-mandated E/I programming guidelines, some of the network's affiliate groups, primarily Hearst Television and Allbritton Communications, refused to carry any show that did not fulfill E/I requirements (such as "Kim Possible" or the "Power Rangers" series during their time on ABC Kids) in order to instead free up time to air locally produced programming. However, some stations time shifted these shows either to very early in the morning Saturday or to Sunday, often before local news, "Good Morning America" and/or that week's "live" portion of the ABC Kids block began.
ABC Kids was aired for the final time on August 27, 2011. After that, ABC discontinued airing animated programming, making it the first not to air animated programs since September 1992, when NBC stopped airing animated programs to make room for TNBC.
On May 24, 2011, ABC announced that it had reached a deal with broadcast syndication production company Litton Entertainment to produce original content for the Saturday morning block. The "Litton's Weekend Adventure" block launched on September 3, 2011, replacing ABC Kids.

</doc>
<doc id="144804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144804" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Pridon Khalvashi">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Pridon Khalvashi

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 14 December 2008 at 1:27 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="144809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144809" title="RLC circuit">
RLC circuit

A circuit containing resistance (R), inductance (L), and capacitance (C) is called an RLC circuit. A simple circuit only has one RLC series.
With a resistance "R" present, the total electromagnetic energy "U" of the circuit (the sum of the electric energy and magnetic energy) is no longer constant. Instead, it decreases with time as energy is transferred to thermal energy in the resistance. Because of this loss of energy, the oscillations of charge, current and potential difference continuously decrease in amplitude, and the oscillations are said to be damped. 
They are damped in exactly the same way as those of the damped block-spring oscillator. To analyze the oscillations of this circuit, an equation can be written for the total electromagnetic energy formula_1 in the circuit at any instant. This is because the resistance does not store electromagnetic energy.
However, this total energy decreases as energy is transferred to thermal energy. 
where the minus sign indicates that formula_1 decreases. By differentiating Eq. 1 with respect to time and then substituting the result in Eq. 2, the following is obtained:
Substituting formula_6 for formula_7 and formula_8 for formula_9, the following is obtained:

</doc>
<doc id="144810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144810" title="Jackstones">
Jackstones

Jackstones is a traditional Korean game. It is usually played by girls. The game is similar to the game Jacks. Jackstones is played by girls in rural villages of Andhra Pradesh by the name of Achenagandlu or Achamgilla or Chintapikkala aata, using small stones or Tamarind seeds. 
The game is played with five stones. Each stone is about the size of an almond. Players can only use one hand to play the game. The game has five parts or "stages".
In the first stage, the player throws the stones on the ground. They pick up one stone and throw it upward. Before the stone falls onto the ground, they need to pick up another stone from the ground and then catch the one that was thrown. This is done again until there are no stones on the ground. 
The second stage is the same with the first stage except that the player needs to pick up two stones at once before the stone which was thrown falls down. The third and the fourth stages are the same. 
In the fifth stage, players can get points. All of the stones are thrown upward. The player must catch as many of the stones as they can with the back of their hand. Then, the stones they caught are thown into the air again and the player must catch all of them. The player gets points for how many stones they catch. If they caught 3 stones, they get 3 points. If they caught 4 stones, they get four points. After that, the next player does the same. When all players have done this, the game is finished. The person (or the team) who has a higher point wins.
Also there are several rules;
If a player is out, the next person (or team) gets the turn.

</doc>
<doc id="144818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144818" title="Lorentz force">
Lorentz force

Lorentz's law is a law discovered by the Dutch physicist Hendrik Antoon Lorentz. Lorentz's law defines force that acts on moving charged particles in an electromagnetic field. Force consists of magnetic force and electric force.
F = qE (electric force)
If the charge is positive, the direction of the electric force is equal to direction of electric field.
F = qv*B (magnetic force)
The direction of the magnetic force is given by the right hand rule.
If charged particles move with velocity v in an electric field E and a magnetic field B
F = qE + qv*B
F : force (vector)
q : charge (scalar)
E : electric field (vector)
v : velocity of particle (vector)
B : magnetic field (vector)
Using this law, J.J. Thomson measured mass-to-charge ratio.

</doc>
<doc id="144824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144824" title="Snell's law">
Snell's law

Snell's law is the scientific law of the refraction of light or other waves. In optics, Snell's law is about the speed of light in different media. The law states that when light passes through different materials (for example from air to glass) the ratio of sines of the incidence (incoming) angle and the refraction (outgoing) angle does not change:
With each formula_2 as the angle measured from the normal of the boundary, formula_3 as the velocity of light in the respective medium (SI units are meters per second, or m/s). formula_4 is the refractive index of the medium. 
The index of refraction of a vacuum is 1 and the velocity of light in a vacuum is formula_5. When a wave passes the material where the index of refraction is n, the velocity of the wave becomes formula_6.
Snell's law can be proved by Fermat's principle. Fermat's principle states that "light travels along the path which takes the least time". 
The idea has a long history. The problem had the attention of Hero of Alexandria, Ptolemy, Ibn Sahl, and Huygens. Ibn Sahl actually discovered the law of refraction. In "Traité de la Lumiere", 1678, Huygens showed how Snell's law of sines could be explained by, or derived from, the wave nature of light.

</doc>
<doc id="144831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144831" title="Golden lion tamarin">
Golden lion tamarin

The golden lion tamarin ("Leontopithecus rosalia"), also called the golden lion marmoset is a small, squirrel-sized monkey with a lion-like mane. 
Tamarins live in small family groups. They are diurnal (most active during the day); at night, they rest in the cavity of a tree. The life span is about 15 years. They are in danger of extinction due to loss of habitat as their forest home is being cleared. These tamarins are arboreal (they live in trees). They live in coastal tropical rainforests in eastern Brazil of South America.
The golden lion tamarin is an omnivore (eating both animals and plants); it eats insects, fruit, small snakes, lizards, snails, spiders, and vegetables. Tamarins use their claws to dig for insects in the bark of trees.

</doc>
<doc id="144835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144835" title="Piet Mondrian">
Piet Mondrian

Piet Mondrian (7 March 1872 – 1 February 1944) was a Dutch modern artist of the De stijl group. His early paintings show abstract landscapes in post-impressionist and cubist style. 
He painted in an increasingly abstract style, until he finally achieved the style which made him famous. By 1920, he adopts a totally abstract motif, with an irregular checkerboard drawn with black lines, and with the spaces paints mostly white or sometimes in the primary colors of blue, red and yellow. This style is geometric abstraction with primary color.
Mondrian painted about 250 of these geometric abstracts, from 1917 to 1944. Mondrian called his style “neoplasticism”.
Escaping in 1940 from a Europe at war, Mondrian spent the last four years of his life in New York City. His paintings of that time express exuberance at city life. In his final painting, "Broadway Boogie Woogie" (1942/43), the checkerboard lines, previously black, are now painted blue, gray, red and yellow. The yellow was apparently inspired by New York’s Yellow cabs. 

</doc>
<doc id="144838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144838" title="2004 Pacific hurricane season">
2004 Pacific hurricane season

The 2004 Pacific hurricane season officially started May 15, 2004 in the eastern Pacific, and June 1, 2004 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 2004. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.
Tropical Depression Five-E formed south of Mexico on July 26. Later that day, it was upgraded to Tropical Storm Darby, and only four hours later, at 2 am (0900 UTC) on July 27, is upgraded to Hurricane Darby. It moved due west at this point, aiming directly for the big island of Hawaii. It reached Category 3 strength on July 29, the first major hurricane in the northeastern Pacific basin since 2002. However, long before it reached Hawaii, it lost strength and dissipated on the evening of July 31.
Tropical Depression Eleven_E formed from a tropical wave about 400 mi. southwest of Acapulco, Mexico and headed northwest, steadily strengthening as it did so. Howard peaked briefly as a Category 4 and then started to weaken. By the time Howard reached a point off the coast of the Baja peninsula, it was only a tropical storm. Howard weakened further, becoming a tropical depression on September 5 and degenerated into a remnant low later that day. The low hooked around and headed southwest. Howard dissipated on September 10 without making landfall.
Tropical Depression Thirteen-E formed out of an area of low pressure south-southeast of the Gulf of Tehuantepec on September 10. It slowly moved northwest, being designated Tropical Storm Javier on the morning of September 11. It was upgraded to a hurricane on the afternoon of September 12, and peaked at Category 4 strength on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale after rapidly strengthening on September 13. 
Warnings began to be issued on September 15 for Baja California. While Javier peaked at Category 4, with windspeeds of 150 mph (240 km/h), it weakened dramatically before striking land south of San Ignacio in Baja Sur as only a tropical depression. Its remnants continued over Baja and inland.
An area of tropical disturbance centered about 90 miles (150 km) south-southwest of Puerto Angel, Mexico, developed into Tropical Depression Fifteen-E on the afternoon of October 11. Due to its proximity, attention was immediately paid to it, and Mexico began issuing watches early the next day. With the 2 pm PDT (2100 UTC) update on October 12, it was upgraded to a tropical storm and named Lester.
It sat mainly stationary just off the coast of Mexico, spending most of October 13 only 25 miles (40 km) west of Acapulco. In the afternoon, it became clear that Lester was falling apart, and with the 2 pm update, even though it was still close to shore, it was downgraded to a tropical depression and advisories ended as it rapidly disintegrated.

</doc>
<doc id="144839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144839" title="Burn Gorman">
Burn Gorman

Burn Gorman (born 1 September 1974) is a British actor and musician. He is best known for his roles as William Guppy in "Bleak House", as Owen Harper in "Torchwood", and as Phillip Stryver in "The Dark Knight Rises".

</doc>
<doc id="144840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144840" title="Bury F.C.">
Bury F.C.

Bury F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

</doc>
<doc id="144841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144841" title="Naoko Mori">
Naoko Mori

Naoko Mori is a Japanese actress. A lot of people know her from her roles as Mie Nishikawa in "Casualty" (1993–1994), and as Toshiko Sato in "Doctor Who" and "Torchwood".

</doc>
<doc id="144842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144842" title="Sarsaparilla">
Sarsaparilla

Sarsaparilla (IPA: /ˌsæspəˈɹɪlə/) ("Smilax regelii" is a perennial trailing vine with prickly stems; it is from tropical America and the West Indies. Its name (which is ' in Spanish) comes from the Spanish words ' for "shrub" and "" for "little grape vine."

</doc>
<doc id="144843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144843" title="Russell T Davies">
Russell T Davies

Russell T Davies, OBE (born Stephen Russell Davies, 27 April 1963), is a critically acclaimed British television producer and writer from Swansea, Wales. He is known for television programmes such as "Queer as Folk" and "The Second Coming", and for bringing back the popular science-fiction television series "Doctor Who", and creating its spin-off series "Torchwood" and "The Sarah Jane Adventures". He wrote the Book "Doctor Who: The Writer's Tale". In 2015 three new shows by Davies, "Cucumber", "Banana", and "Tofu", started. 
Davies is openly gay.

</doc>
<doc id="144845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144845" title="Hunedoara County">
Hunedoara County

Hunedoara (; ) is a county (Judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania. The capital of Hunedoara County is Deva.
About 485,000 people live in Hunedoara County.
Hunedoara County has an area of 7,063 km². 
Hunedoara County has 7 municipalities, 7 towns and 55 communes.

</doc>
<doc id="144846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144846" title="Murray Gold">
Murray Gold

Murray Gold (born 1969 in Portsmouth) is an English composer for stage, movie, and television.
He composed the music for the popular science-fiction program Doctor Who, and many other TV programmes and Movies.

</doc>
<doc id="144849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144849" title="American League Championship Series">
American League Championship Series

In Major League Baseball, the American League Championship Series (ALCS), played in October, is a playoff round that decides the winner of the American League pennant. The winner of the series moves on to play the winner of the National League Championship Series in baseball's championship, the World Series. It is a "best-of-seven" series, meaning the first team to win four games 
From 1969 to 1993, . Since 1995, the winners of the American League Division Series have gone on to be in the Championship series.
Click the link on the far left for detailed information on that series.
†"Denotes wild-card team (since 1995)."

</doc>
<doc id="144850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144850" title="Stellar classification">
Stellar classification

In astronomy, stellar classification is a way of grouping stars by temperature. Star temperature can be measured by looking at its spectrum, the type of light that the star shines.
Stars are also grouped into spectral types or classes by color. In general, a star's temperature determines its color, from red to blue-white. Spectral types are named with a letter: "M", "K", "G", "F", "A", "B" and "O". "M" stars are the coldest stars and "O" stars are the hottest.
The closest star to the Earth, the sun, is a class G star.
The Harvard classification system is a one-dimensional classification scheme. Stars vary in surface temperature from about 2,000 to 40,000 kelvin. Physically, the classes indicate the temperature of the star's atmosphere and are normally listed from hottest to coldest, as is done in the following table: 
Note: The conventional color description describe only the peak of the stellar spectrum. However, the actual apparent colors the eye sees are lighter than the conventional color descriptions. 
The mass, radius, and luminosity listed for each class are appropriate only for stars on the main-sequence portion of their lives and so are not appropriate for red giants. The spectral classes O through M are subdivided by Arabic numerals (0–9). For example, A0 denotes the hottest stars in the A class and A9 denotes the coolest ones. The Sun is classified as G2.
The Hertzsprung-Russell diagram is more often used in astronomy, because it relates three important variables: the absolute magnitude, the luminosity and the surface temperature. It is as important to astronomy as the periodic table is to chemistry.
The "conventional color" descriptions are traditional in astronomy, and represent colors relative to the mean color of an "A-class star" which is considered to be white. The "apparent color" descriptions are what the observer would see if trying to describe the stars under a dark sky without aid to the eye, or with binoculars. 
The Sun itself is white, though it is sometimes called a yellow star. This is a natural consequence of the evolution of human optical senses: the response curve that maximizes the overall efficiency against solar illumination will by definition perceive the Sun as white, though there is some subjective variation between observers.

</doc>
<doc id="144851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144851" title="Norwell, Massachusetts">
Norwell, Massachusetts

Norwell is a small town in Plymouth County, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="144856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144856" title="Grimsby Town F.C.">
Grimsby Town F.C.

Grimsby Town F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

</doc>
<doc id="144857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144857" title="Thoa Mehram Khan">
Thoa Mehram Khan

Thoa Mehram Khan is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Talagang Tehsil.

</doc>
<doc id="144859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144859" title="Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 movie)">
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 movie)

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is an American animated musical fantasy movie from 1937. It was made by Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. It is based on the German fairy tale "Snow White" by the Brothers Grimm. It is the first full-length cel animated movie and the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill De Maris, Otto Englander, Earl Hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith. David Hand was the supervising director, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, and Ben Sharpsteen directed the movie's different sequences.
"Snow White" was first shown at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937. It was released across the United States on February 4, 1938. With international earnings of $8 million during its initial release, the movie for a bit had the record of highest grossing sound movie at the time. The popularity of the movie has led to it being re-released theatrically many times, until its home video release in the 1990s. Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top ten performers at the North American box office.
At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt Disney was awarded an honorary Oscar. The movie was nominated for Best Musical Score. It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute's list of the 100 greatest American films, who also named the movie as the greatest American animated movie of all time in 2008. Disney's take on the fairytale has had a huge cultural impact, resulting in popular theme park attractions, a video game, and a Broadway musical.
An evil queen has a mirror and asks "Mirror, mirror, on the wall, who's the fairest of them all?" The mirror answers "Snow White". Snow White is lost in the woods, and comes across the home of seven little men, or dwarves. She cleans their home, and they allow her to stay with them. The queen eventually finds out that the heart in the box is of a pig so she goes and changes herself onto an old hag. She goes to the dwarfs' cottage the next day while they're out and gets Snow White to bite into an apple with makes her fall dead. Suddenly, the dwarfs chase the old hag up a cliff and trap her. She tries to roll a boulder over them but lightning strikes and she dies. Snow White is awakened by the kiss of a handsome prince.
Development on "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" began in early 1934, and in June 1934, Walt Disney announced the production of his first feature to the "New York Times". Before "Snow White", the Disney studio had been mainly involved in the production of highly successful animated shorts in the "Mickey Mouse" and "Silly Symphonies" series. Disney hoped to enlarge his studio's reputation and money by moving into features, and estimated that "Snow White" could be produced for a budget of $250,000 - ten times the budget of an average "Silly Symphony".
Walt Disney had to fight to get the movie produced. Both his brother Roy Disney and his wife Lillian attempted to talk him out of it, and the Hollywood movie industry mockingly referred to the movie as "Disney's Folly" while it was in production. He even had to mortgage his house to help finance the movie's production, which eventually ran up a total cost of just over $1.5 million, a huge sum for a movie in 1937.
Unvoiced characters include Snow White's animal friends, the Queen's raven, and the vultures who follow the Witch. However, although the animals did not have human speaking voices, their natural calls were very lifelike, and were all voiced by champion whistler and animal mimic A. Purves Pullen, who would provide bird and animal calls for Disney movies (including numerous Pluto cartoons) for several decades. Pullen also produced the bird calls for the Enchanted Tiki Room attractions at Disney theme parks. During the 1940s and 1950s, he performed as "Dr. Horatio Q. Birdbath" with the 
comedy band Spike Jones & His City Slickers.
"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" was first shown in cinemas on December 21, 1937. It was released across the United States on February 4, 1938. It has been re-released many times since. The first time was in 1944, in order to raise money for the Disney studio during World War II. This set a tradition of re-releasing Disney animated features every seven to ten years. "Snow White" was re-released to theaters in 1952, 1958, 1967, 1975, 1983, 1987 and 1993.
Disney's wife, Lillian, told him that no one will go pay anything to see a dwarf picture. "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" premiered at the Carthay Circle Theater on December 21, 1937 to a very impressed audience, many of the same people who called the movie "Disney's Folly." The movie received a prasie from many child actors audience that included Charlie Chaplin and Paulette Goddard, Shirley Temple, Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Judy Garland, Ginger Rogers, Jack Benny, Fred MacMurray, Clark Gable and Carole Lombard, Burns and Allen, Ed Sullivan, Milton Berle, John Barrymore, and Marlene Dietrich. Six days later, Walt Disney and the seven dwarfs appeared on the cover of "Time" magazine. The "New York Times" said "Thank you very much, Mr. Disney." RKO Radio Pictures put the movie into general release on February 4, 1938, and it went on to become a huge box-office success, making more money than any other movie in 1938. In fact, for a short time, "Snow White" was the highest-grossing movie in American cinema history, until it was beat by "Gone with the Wind" in 1939. When taking inflation into account, and including rereleases, the movie still remains one of the top ten American movie moneymakers of all time.
"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" was the first full-length animated feature movie made in English and Technicolor (not counting the "Academy Award Review of Walt Disney Cartoons"), and won an Academy Award for Walt Disney as a huge movie which has charmed millions and started a great new form of entertainment. Disney won a full-size Oscar statuette and seven small ones, given to him by 10-year-old child actress Shirley Temple.
The movie was also nominated for Best Musical Score. "Some Day My Prince Will Come" has become a jazz standard that has been performed by numerous artists, including Buddy Rich, Lee Wiley, Oscar Peterson, and Miles Davis.
Noted moviemakers such as Sergei Eisenstein and Charlie Chaplin praised the movie as a huge achievement in cinema. The movie inspired Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer to produce its own fantasy movie, "The Wizard of Oz" in 1939. The 1943 "Merrie Melodies" short "Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs", directed by Bob Clampett, parodies "Snow White" by presenting the story with an all-black cast singing a jazz score.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its "Ten top Ten"—the best ten movies in ten "classic" American movie genres. After polling over 1,500 people from the creative community, "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" was acknowledged as the best movie in the animation genre.
Snow White's Scary Adventures is a popular theme park ride at Disneyland (an opening day attraction dating from 1955), Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom, Tokyo Disneyland, and Disneyland Paris. Snow White, her Prince, and the Seven Dwarfs are also featured in parades and character appearances throughout the parks.
A video game was released for the Game Boy Color system. Snow White appears in the popular PlayStation 2 game "Kingdom Hearts" as one of the seven fabled Princesses of Heart.

</doc>
<doc id="144863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144863" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/2009">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/2009

The WikiCup is a championship which will take place for the first time on Simple English Wikipedia. The cup is played and won by skill of editing, in which the purpose of the cup is to encourage editing and to make editing fun here on Wikipedia.
The tournament is played in the style of the FIFA World Cup. Editors are split into groups, each running for a certain period of time, before being compared and the top two from each round will move to the next round. This continues until there are just 4 users left, when a Semi-Final will occur. From this, the top two users will progress to the Final, and the bottom two will progress to the 3rd Place Edit-Off, or "Plate".
The winner will get a wikicup, the runner-up another award and everyone else will get an award just for taking part.
The points are awarded in the following way
We are not currently accepting any more requests for the 2009 Wikicup.
It is planned for there to be the initial Pool round, the Quarter-Final, Semi-Final and Final, however more rounds may be added depending on user uptake. The judges will make any changes to the rounds clear.
The Pools will run from "00:00 January 1 2009" until "00:00 March 1 2009". The top two from each pool will progress to the quarter final.<br>
The Quarter-Final will run from "00:00 March 2 2009" to "00:00 April 2 2009". 
The top user in each Quarter-Final will then enter the Semi-Final, starting at "00:00 May 3 2009" and ending at "00:00, June 3 2009".
The winner of each Semi-Final will then go to the Final, taking place between "00:00 June 4 2009" and "00:00, July 4 2009". The other two users will then enter the "Plate" for Third and Fourth Place.
Note: All times are in UTC.
The two users that do not progress to the Final will enter the Plate to compete for third and fourth place. It will run over the same period as the Final.

</doc>
<doc id="144866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144866" title="Captain Jack Harkness">
Captain Jack Harkness

Captain Jack Harkness is a fictional character in the British television series "Doctor Who" and "Torchwood". He is played by actor John Barrowman. He was first in "Doctor Who" in the 2005 episode "The Empty Child" and is in the show throughout the rest of the 2005 series as a companion of the Ninth Doctor. Jack later becomes the main character in "Torchwood", an adult-themed spin-off of "Doctor Who". He comes back into "Doctor Who" in the 2007 series and he meets the Tenth Doctor, and returned again for the 2008 series.
Jack is a time traveller and former con man from the 51st century. A bisexual. In contrast to the wiser and older Doctor, Jack prefers a hands-on solution to the problem at hand. As a consequence of his death and being brought back in the last episode of the 2005 series of "Doctor Who", the character becomes immortal, which does not change during both "Doctor Who" and "Torchwood".
 In naming the character, executive producer and head writer Russell T Davies got inspiration from the Marvel Comics character Agatha Harkness, Jack's original appearances in "Doctor Who" were thought of with the intention of forming a character arc in which Jack is changed from a coward to a hero, and John Barrowman consciously minded this in his portrayal of the character. Following on that arc, the character's debut episode would leave his morality as ambiguous, publicity materials asking, "Is he a force for good or ill?"
The character is described as both "lethally charming... good looking and utterly captivating", as well as "flirtatious, cunning, clever and a bit of an action man". Within "Doctor Who", Jack's personality is light-hearted, although this changes in "Torchwood"'s first series, where he becomes a darker character. In "Torchwood" Series 1, Jack has been shaped by his ongoing search for the Doctor and also by his role as a leader, in which he is predominantly more aloof. During The second series of "Torchwood", Jack became a much more light-hearted character once again, after appearances in "Doctor Who" where he was reunited with the Doctor.
From the Torchwood onwards, Harkness wears period military clothes from the second World War, including braces and an officer's wool greatcoat in every appearance. Costume designer Ray Holman comments that "We always wanted to keep the World War Two hero look for him, so all his outfits have a 1940s flavor. We knew he'd be running around a lot, so I redesigned his RAF Group Captain's greatcoat from "Doctor Who" to make it more fluid, because the real things are very weighty... The rest of Jack's costumes are loosely wartime based, so he has big wartime trousers which are getting more and more styled to suit his figure. There are actually five Captain Jack coats used on the show - one hero version which is used for most scenes, one wetcoat made with a pre-shrunk fabric, a running coat which is slightly shorter so John's heels do not catch when he runs and two stunt coats - which were 'hero coats' back in Series 1."
Discussing whether his character could ever find a soulmate, John Barrowman refutes that Jack "likes everybody, and his love for each person is different". He believes that Jack does harbour romantic feelings toward the Doctor, but "would never take that beyond infatuation" and "would never let the Doctor know". Barrowman describes Jack's love for Ianto as "lustful", and if he ever were to settle down with him, he would "let Ianto know that he [Jack] has to play around on the side". John Barrowman and Gareth David-Lloyd have also opined that Jack's relationship with Ianto has however brought out Jack's empathy, and helped to ground him. In contrast, if he settled down with Gwen, "he'd have to commit completely" to her; this is why he does not act on his feelings for her, because even though she would let him flirt with other people, he could "never afford to do anything more Eve Myles, who portrays Gwen, describes theirs as a "palpable love" and opines that "with Jack and Gwen, it’s the real thing and they’re going to make you wait for that." "Torchwood" Series Two sees Jack promise both Gwen and Ianto that they were the reason he returned to Cardiff. Barrowman claims that Jack also "fancies" fellow companion Martha Jones, admiring her "tenacity" and willingness to "spat with him", and describes Jack's love for Toshiko and Owen as "fatherly", stating "He was guiding them. That's why it was so devastating for him to lose them." Offering reasons why Jack could never find "The One", Barrowman brings up the character's immortality. "He always loses them. He outlives them. They die. He watches them get old. That bothered him in Series One [of "Torchwood"], but now he's come to terms with that, I think... so now he just sleeps around!"
In several instances in "Torchwood", Jack displays no problems with killing a person of any species, which within "Doctor Who", allows Jack's character to act in ways the lead character cannot. When reuniting with the Doctor in the 2007 series, he is verbally warned "don't you dare" when pointing a gun. Witnessing the murder of his colleague Owen, Jack shoots his killer in the forehead, killing him in an act of quick revenge. Whilst the Doctor scorns Jack for joining the Torchwood Institute (an organisation he perceives as xenophobic and aggressive), Jack maintains that he reformed the Institute in the Doctor's image; Jack himself had initially been critical of the moral failings of a 19th-century Torchwood.

</doc>
<doc id="144868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144868" title="Hurricane Fico">
Hurricane Fico

Hurricane Fico of the 1978 Pacific hurricane season was a tropical cyclone that caused damage in Hawaii.
 A tropical depression formed on July 7 and organized into the sixth tropical storm of the season the next day. Initially heading west-northwest, it changed direction to almost due west shortly after reaching Category 4 intensity on July 11. After spending over a day at that intensity, Fico decayed and fell back down to a mid-range Category 1 on July 14. Fico then reintensified back to Category 4 strength the next day.
The hurricane's strength fluctuated, but Fico stayed a major hurricane until July 17, when it entered the central Pacific as a Category 1. It slowly intensified and became a major hurricane yet again on the 21st. At this point, Fico turned to the northwest and slowly lost strength. The storm dropped to a tropical storm early on July 28, and went extratropical later that day. At a later date, the remnants were enmeshed in a frontal system which headed towards the Aleutian Islands.
Fico was a tropical cyclone for 20 days, and travelled a distance of roughly 5500 mi (9000 km), both of which were records. It was also a hurricane for 17 consecutive days. Both of Fico's records have been broken. Hurricane Tina and then Hurricane John outlasted Fico. John also outran its distance record.
Fico never made landfall. Despite this, it pounded the Big Island with 15-30 foot waves doing "considerable damage" to roads and buildings along the coast. Smaller waves also broke on the southern shores of Maui with minimal effects. Six people aboard a sloop were washed overboard and rescued, while a tugboat was driven aground on a reef at Kukuiula. A weakening Fico also caused a sharp wind gradient, producing gusty gale-force winds that blew across the islands, knocking over trees and causing power outages. Fico's extratropical remnants caused heavy rains and gales south of Cold Bay in the Aleutians.
The name Fico was retired after this storm and replaced with Fabio in the 1982 season.

</doc>
<doc id="144869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144869" title="Software release">
Software release

When a piece of software is released it has usually gone through different steps in its development. Software that was released, can be purchased, downloaded, or, generally used by customers. Usually these steps are:

</doc>
<doc id="144870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144870" title="The Best of Billie">
The Best of Billie

The Best of Billie is an album by British pop singer Billie Piper. It was released by EMI on 8 August 2005. The album contained Piper's single releases as well as B-sides.

</doc>
<doc id="144872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144872" title="Girlfriend (Billie song)">
Girlfriend (Billie song)

"Girlfriend" is a single released by Billie Piper in 1998. It is from her first album "Honey to the B". It reached No. 1 in the United Kingdom. This made her the youngest and first female solo singer to reach the top spot with her first two singles.
On the American track listing for "Honey to the B", the radio remix replaces the original album version.
UK CD Single 1<br>
UK CD Single 2 (Contains Free Poster)<br>

</doc>
<doc id="144878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144878" title="Category:1997 Pacific hurricane season">
Category:1997 Pacific hurricane season

These are the articles in the 1997 Pacific hurricane season.

</doc>
<doc id="144890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144890" title="Naresuan University">
Naresuan University

Naresuan University is a university in Phitsanulok, Thailand.
NU stands for Naresuan University.
The first symbol of this university is the statue of King Naresuan the great. The second is the King Naresuan’s elephant.
The school flower is Lagerstroemia loudonii Binn. The school colors are gray and orange. Gray means the color of wisdom. Orange means the color of braveness and goodness.
Naresuan University is the sources of acknowledgement and we support pupils to be the good people in Thai society.
Naresuan University’s ideology is to make pupils have educations, goodnesses and ethical behaviors to live with other people in society happily.
The determinations of Naresuan University are not only to be the head of academy in south north region which developing the pupils to be the good pundit and can live happily with the other people in society, but also reduce the environment.
Naresuan University Homepage

</doc>
<doc id="144891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144891" title="King Bayinnong">
King Bayinnong

Bayinnaung Kyawhtin Nawrahta (Burmese: ဘုရင့်နောင် ကျော်ထင်နော်ရထာ, ; 16 January 1516 – 9 November 1581) was the third king of the Toungoo dynasty of Burma (Myanmar). He was king for 30 years. This time has been called the "greatest explosion of human energy ever seen in Burma". As king, Bayinnaung created the largest empire in the history of Southeast Asia. This empire included much of Burma, Manipur, Chinese Shan States (southern Yunnan), Lan Na (northern Thailand), Siam (central and southern Thailand) and Lan Xang (Laos and northeastern Thailand).
Bayinnaung's made the Shan States part of the Burmese kingdoms. This removed the threat of Shan raids into Upper Burma. This had been a concern to Upper Burma since the late 13th century. The kink took control of the Shan States in 1557. He put in an administrative system that took away much of the power of the Shan saophas (chiefs). The also made changes to some of their customs to make them similar to other customs in the kingdoms. His policy for dealing with the Shan was used by all Burmese kings until the kingdom was taken control of by the British in 1885.
He could not use this policy everywhere in his very large empire. His empire was a group of former sovereign kingdoms. The kings of each of the kingdoms were loyal to him. He was the Cakravartin (Universal Ruler). They were not loyal to the kingdom itself. Siam left the kingdom three years after of his death in 1584. By 1599, all the sub-kingdoms had left. Bayinnaung's empire had ended.
He is thought to be one of the three best Burmese kings. The other two are Anawrahta and Alaungpaya. Many well known places in modern Myanmar are named after him. He is also well known in Thailand because of a popular song and book. Both are called "Phu Chana Sip Thit". The name means "the Conqueror of Ten Directions."

</doc>
<doc id="144903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144903" title="Transformers (movie)">
Transformers (movie)

Transformers is a 2007 live-action American movie adaptation of the "Transformers" franchise, directed by Michael Bay and written by Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman. It stars Shia LaBeouf as Sam Witwicky.
This movie has a sequel, "".
the Decepticons, an evil race of alien robots, attack a U.S. military unit stationed in the Middle East. The men launch an immediate offensive -- but meanwhile, back in the States, Secretary of Defense John Keller (Jon Voight) learns of a secret U.S. project involving Megatron (voiced by Hugo Weaving), a bad robot that crash-landed in the Arctic In the film's civilian side-story, teenager Sam (Shia LaBeouf) buys a used car, unaware it's an Autobot -- a good robot. Neither does Sam realize that he has in his possession the key to the all-powerful cube -- which all the robots, good and bad, desperately want. The film's many characters and plots collide with the help of the Autobots' courageous, red-and-blue-colored leader Optimus Prime (Peter Cullen).

</doc>
<doc id="144913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144913" title="Siam Paragon">
Siam Paragon

Siam Paragon is the largest shopping mall in Thailand. It opened on 9 December 2005. The mall is in Pathumwan. It covers in an area of . More than 4000 cars can park in its parking lot. Siam Paragon is the first place in Thailand that have 26 glass elevators. 
In addition to the stores in the mall, there are many other special locations. The mall has a multiplex movie theater. It has 15 large theaters One of the theaters has the largest screen in Asia. Also, more people can sit in that theater than any other Asian theater. Siam Ocean World (Underwater world) is an aquarium. It is the largest aquarium in South East Asia. The mall also has exhibition hall, Thai Art Gallery, an opera concert hall, a large bowling alley and a karaoke center.
There are also many different restaurants in the mall.

</doc>
<doc id="144914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144914" title="Tropical Storm Ana (2003)">
Tropical Storm Ana (2003)

Tropical Storm Ana was the only tropical cyclone on record in the Atlantic Ocean in the month of April. Ana was the first tropical storm of the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season. Tropical Storm Ana was two kinds of storms, a "subtropical cyclone", and a "tropical cyclone". It formed as a subtropical cyclone on April 20, while it was to the west of Bermuda. It moved towards the east-southeast and began to get better organized. On April 21, the subtropical cyclone became a tropical cyclone. Tropical Storm Ana then turned towards the east-northeast. It quickly lost strength because of wind shear and a close cold front. On April 24, Ana became an extratropical cyclone. 
The storm moved near Bermuda, while causing light rainfall. The remnants of the storm also dropped rain in the Azores and the United Kingdom. Stormy sea waters caused by the storm capsized a boat near Florida coastline. The incident killed two people.
A low pressure area formed to the south, and southwest, of Bermuda on April 18. A trough, which is a type of weather system, brought an area of clouds into the low pressure system. The low pressure system moved towards the north. After turning towards the northwest, the weather system looped southeastward. Thunderstorm activity became stronger near the center of the cyclone. The storm was named Subtropical Storm Ana on April 20, while located about 250 miles (400 km) west of Bermuda.
The subtropical storm moved to the east-southeastward and it continued to get stronger. It is estimated that Ana became a tropical storm by 0000 UTC on April 21. When it became a tropical cyclone, Ana reached its highest winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). Shortly after, Ana came close to Bermuda. Strong wind shear began to remove a lot of the thunderstorm activity from Ana. Ana continued to move eastward, and early on April 22, the wind shear again removed the thunderstorms from the center of the storm. After turning towards the northeast, the core of Ana merged with a cold front on April 24. Because of t his, Tropical Storm Ana turned into an extratropical cyclone. The remnants of the cyclone sped towards the east-northeastward, before it died out on April 27.
Before Ana was formed, the government of Bermuda declared a gale warning for the island. When Ana formed, a tropical storm warning was also issued for Bermuda. The storm moved close to Bermuda and dropped 2.63 inches (67 mm) of rainfall the Bermuda International Airport. The winds on the island were light. 
Stormy seas from the storm reached the coast of Florida in the United States. A couple of factors, which included the stormy seas, caused a boat to capsize in Jupiter Inlet. Two people on the ship drowned, and the others were rescued. The remnants of Ana dropped 0.87 inches (22 mm) of rainfall in the city of Ponta Delgada in the Azores. Clouds from the remnants of Ana also caused rain in the United Kingdom. Two ships experienced tropical storm force winds because of Ana.
Ana was the second subtropical cyclone on record in the Atlantic basin in the month of April. When the storm became a tropical cyclone, it was also the first Atlantic tropical storm in the month of April. Because the damage from Ana was not bad, the name "Ana" was not retired by the World Meteorological Organization. The name Ana was used again in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="144916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144916" title="Hymenoptera">
Hymenoptera

The Hymenoptera is one of the larger orders of insect. It includes the wasps, bees, ants and sawflies. There are over 130,000 recognised species, with many more remaining to be described. The name is derived from the Greek words "hymen" meaning 'membrane' and "ptera" meaning 'wings. The hindwings are connected to the forewings by a series of hooks called "hamuli".
Females typically have a special ovipositor for inserting eggs into hosts or otherwise inaccessible places. The ovipositor is often modified into a stinger. The young develop through complete metamorphosis — that is, they have a worm-like larval stage and an inactive pupal stage before they mature (See holometabolism).
These are the sawflies, the most primitive Hymenoptera. Their adults do not have a narrow 'waist' between the thorax and abdomen. The female's ovipositor is adapted to burrowing or sawing into the substrate, usually plant tissue. 
These, the bees, wasps and ants, have a 'waist' between the thorax and abdomen. They are by far the most numerous Hymenoptera, and include the famous groups of colonial insects. In fact, the group with the most species is not colonial; it is the vast number of parasitoid wasps, such as the Ichneumons.
Hymenoptera originated in the Triassic: the oldest fossils belong to the Sawfly family Xyelidae. Social hymenopterans appeared during the Cretaceous.

</doc>
<doc id="144917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144917" title="Syrian American">
Syrian American

Syrian Americans are citizens of the United States of Syrian ancestry or nationality. This ethnic group includes first generation immigrants, and descendants of Syrians who immigrated to the United States. It is believed that Syrians first arrived in the United States in large number in 1880. Many of the earliest Syrian Americans settled in New York, Boston, and Detroit. Immigration from Syria to the United States was stopped for a long time after the United States Congress passed the Immigration Act of 1924, which made it difficult. 
More than forty years later, the Immigration Act of 1965, removed the quotas and immigration from Syria to the United States increased very much. It is estimated that 64,600 Syrians immigrated to the United States between 1961 and 2000.
Most of the Syrian immigrants to the US from 1880 to 1960 were Christian; a small minority were Jewish, Muslim Syrians arrived in the United States mostly after 1965. According to the United States 2000 Census, there were 142,897 Americans of Syrian ancestry, about 12% of the Arab population in the United States.
It is believed that the first Syrian immigrants arrived in the United States from Greater Syria in the 1880s and worked as peddlers, selling linen and other similar types of goods. Before 1920, the area now known as Syria was actually part of Greater Syria, an area which included the four modern countries of Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, and Syria itself. Most immigrants from the region were classified as "Syrian," even though they were not ethnic Syrian; some were even registered as Syrian Turks as Syria was under Ottoman rule for 400 years. This makes difficulties in trying to work out how many Syrians arrived in the early years.
Most of the early Syrian immigrants came from Christian villages around Mount Lebanon. According to historian Philip Hitti, approximately 90,000 "Syrians" arrived in the United States between 1899 and 1919. An estimated 1,000 official entries per year came from the governorates of Damascus and Aleppo, which are governorates in modern-day Syria, in the period between 1900 and 1916. Early immigrants settled mainly in northeastern United States, in the cities of New York City, Boston and Detroit and the Paterson, New Jersey area.
According to the United States 2000 Census, there are 142,897 Americans of Syrian ancestry living in the United States. New York City has the biggest concentration of Syrian Americans in the United States. Other urban areas, including Boston, Dearborn, New Orleans, Toledo, Cedar Rapids, and Houston have large Syrian populations. Syrian Americans are also numerous in Southern California (i.e. the Los Angeles and San Diego areas) and Arizona.
The first Syrian immigrants to the United States wore traditional clothing, this along with the fact that they tended to work as peddlers, led to some xenophobia. Dr. A. J. McLaughlin, the United States health officer at Marine Hospital, described Syrians as "parasites in their peddling habits." U.S. authorities claimed that Syrians had no right to become naturalized because they were Asian and did not belong to the white race. However, Syrians reacted quickly to assimilate fully into their new culture. Immigrants Anglicized their names, adopted the English language and common Christian denominations.
Syrians did not stay together in urban areas; many of the immigrants who had worked as peddlers were in contact with Americans on a daily basis. This helped them to absorb and learn the language and customs of their new homeland. Also military service during World War I and World War II helped assimilation. Assimilation of early Syrian immigrants was so successful that it has become difficult to recognize the ancestors of many families which have become completely Americanized.
After 1965 Immigration was mostly Muslim, and unlike their Christian counterparts they found it a bit harder assimilating because of their Islamic faith and the anti-assimilationist trend in America of the 1960s and 1970s. Also they are fond of their identity as Arabs, which might be a result of the bloom in multiculturalism to respect their Islamic religious customs and traditions in the United States. 
Syrians are mainly Arabic speakers. While some may speak the formal literary Arabic, many Syrians speak Syrian Arabic, a dialect which belongs to the Levantine Arabic family of dialects. There are also sub-dialects in Syrian Arabic; for example, people from Aleppo have a distinct accent, one that differs considerably from that of people from Homs or Al-Hasakah. Syrians can usually understand the dialects of most Arabs, especially those who speak any form of Levantine Arabic. 
Many old Syrian American families no longer speak Arabic because many parents do not teach their children Arabic. Newer immigrants, however, maintain their language traditions. The 2000 census shows that 79.9% of Syrian Americans speak English "very well". Throughout the United States, there are schools which offer Arabic language classes; there are also some Eastern Orthodox churches which hold Arabic services. Also to note Syria and Lebanon were briefly under French rule between 1918 and 1943 when they obtained independence, so many Syrian Americans are familiar with the French language.

</doc>
<doc id="144932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144932" title="Dipole antenna">
Dipole antenna

The dipole antenna is one of the most important and commonly used type of radio antenna. It is widely used on its own. It is also used in many other radio antenna designs where it forms the radiating or driven element for the antenna.
The dipole antenna is made of two poles into which radio frequency current flows. This current and the voltage causes an electromagnetic or radio signal to be radiated. Being more specific, a dipole is usually an antenna that uses a resonant length of conductor. This conductor is cut so it can be connected to the what is sending the signal. For resonance, the length of the conductor is an odd number of half wavelengths long. In most cases a single half-wavelength is used.
The length of a dipole is very important for selecting the frequency that the antenna will work at. The antenna is an electrical half wavelength, or multiple of half wavelengths. This is not the same length as the wavelength for a signal travelling through air. There are a number of reasons for this. This means that an antenna will be a small amount shorter than the length calculated for a wave moving in air.
For a half wave dipole, the length for a wave moving in air is calculated. This number is multiplied by a factor "A". "A" is normally between 0.96 and 0.98. It is affected by the ratio of the length of the antenna to the thickness of the wire or tube used poles.
Dipole antennas are used for many different things. These include television antennas (commonly referred to as "rabbit ears"), shortwave radio antennas and whip antennas.

</doc>
<doc id="144933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144933" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/ChristianMan16 5">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/ChristianMan16 5

"Ended: 15 December 2008"
I would like to present myself to the community for adminship...yes a little quick but my last one was ended early cause I was being impersonated on ENWP. So here's why I think i should be an admin. First of all, I have cranked up on my Mainspace edits, I have cranked up on my QD tags and my vandalism reversions, I have about 8 reports to I currently have 4,178 edits to this Wikipedia with the earliest being 06:20, 29 August 2007 (UTC). I started regularly editing here earlier this year. Since then I have worked on expanding out wrestling articles. I have over 35% of my total edits in main space in my time here. I think I have greatly improved since my days on ENWP. I have seen the need for the tools more since I cranked up on my qd tagging and Vandalism reverting started. That's why. Thanks for listening.--    06:16, 8 December 2008 (UTC)
"Candidate's acceptance:Self-nomintation--    06:16, 8 December 2008 (UTC)"
According to the pie chart edit counter and Mediawiki's edit counter, you have around 29% of edits to the namespace with around 23% of other edits to your userpage. This would constitute the basis of an oppose for me, but you obviously "know" how edit articles already (which is why we look for high percentage namespace edits in the first place), so I'll make throughout checks of other factors before voting.
However, you have to edit articles more! 29% isn't enough, frankly, for an admin to have. -- 06:30, 8 December 2008 (UTC)
? – () 23:57, 10 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="144934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144934" title="Analog signal processing">
Analog signal processing

An analog signal processor is used to quickly process signals that can be too complex to handle any other way. A comparator is used to offer level triggers correct down to microvolts with reaction times in the picoseconds. Analog filters offer anti-aliasing in sampled value systems as inputs and outputs, and can be used as pre-filters in audio and communications. Analog multipliers and dividers are used to offer brief gain control, radiometric function, or continuous energy measurement, with surprising accuracy. Over-voltage protection applications can protect the front-end of analog transmission/receiver systems, multiplexers. Amplification and filtering for noise removal are the main feature of analog signal processing.

</doc>
<doc id="144936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144936" title="Category:Ethnic groups in the United States">
Category:Ethnic groups in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="144943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144943" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup">
Wikipedia:Wikicup

Hello and welcome to the official home of the Simple English Wikipedia's Wikicup!
Please use the links above to navigate around the Wikicup Headquarters.
The Wikicup was set up in September 2008 by . Unfortunately it never quite took off and fell dormant before being cancelled. revived the idea during December 2008, and has since taken on the layout of the project, in his role as a judge.
The Wikicup has already started, so entries will not be accepted any longer. However, you are always welcome to help in any other part of the project, and we ask that you do so by suggesting it first.

</doc>
<doc id="144944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144944" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Dashboard">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Dashboard

<includeonly>
</includeonly></div></div></div></div>

</doc>
<doc id="144951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144951" title="Delta Goodrem">
Delta Goodrem

Delta Lea Goodrem (born 9 November 1984) is an Australian actress and singer. Her first single, "I Don't Care", charted as high as #64 on Australia's ARIA Singles Chart in 2001. In the following year, Goodrem took up the role of a schoolgirl named Nina Tucker in the Australian soap opera "Neighbours". This helped her into becoming a well known musician.
Goodrem was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma in July 2003, for which she was treated.
Delta Goodrem released her second single "Born to Try" in 2002. It charted at #1 on the ARIA Singles Charts for one week. Her third single, "Lost Without You", was released in February 2003. It charted at #1 on the ARIA Singles Charts for two separate weeks. Her album, "Innocent Eyes", was released in March the same year. It was #1 on the charts for 29 weeks. A single of the same name ("Innocent Eyes") was later released in June, followed by the release of two more singles from the album, "Not Me, Not I" and "Predictable".
In late 2004, Goodrem released the first single, "Out of the Blue", from her second album. The album, "Mistaken Identity", was released a month later. Other singles from the album include "Mistaken Identity", "A Little Too Late" and a duet with Brian McFadden, "Almost Here".
Delta Goodrem was asked to write a song for the 2006 Commonwealth Games Opening Ceremony and perform in the event herself. The single, "Together We Are One", was released on the "Commonwealth Games: Melbourne 2006 Opening Ceremony" compilation.
In 2007, Goodrem released a single titled "In This Life". It was from her third studio album "Delta" which was released a month later. Other singles from this album include "Believe Again", "You Will Only Break My Heart" and "I Can't Break It To My Heart".
In October 2012, Delta Goodrem released her fourth studio album, "Child of the Universe". Singles from this album include "Sitting on Top of the World", "Dancing With a Broken Heart" and "Wish You Were Here".
On 1 July 2016, Delta Goodrem's fifth studio album, "Wings of the Wild" was released. Singles from this album include "Only Human", "Wings", "Dear Life" and "Enough".

</doc>
<doc id="144952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144952" title="Category:Palestinian people">
Category:Palestinian people

This is for articles about people from the country of Palestine.

</doc>
<doc id="144955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144955" title="Wikipedia:UK IPs">
Wikipedia:UK IPs


</doc>
<doc id="144969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144969" title="Tiber River">
Tiber River

The Tiber River is a river in Italy. It originates in the Appenine mountains near the Monte Fumaiolo, in Romagna, then flows for 405 km in Tuscany, Umbria, Latium, crossing Rome until flowing into the Tyrrhenian Sea. 

</doc>
<doc id="144971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144971" title="Flag of Italy">
Flag of Italy

The flag of Italy is a flag. It has three same-sized strips of green, white, and red, in order from left to right. Its current form was adopted on the 1st of January 1948. In Italy it is called the "Tricolore".

</doc>
<doc id="144977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144977" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Userbox">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Userbox


</doc>
<doc id="144978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144978" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates


</doc>
<doc id="144982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144982" title="Category:Spider-Man">
Category:Spider-Man

Subjects in this category are related to Spider-Man.

</doc>
<doc id="144999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144999" title="Kele Okereke">
Kele Okereke

Kelechukwu Rowland Okereke known as Kele Okereke is a British singer and guitarist for rock band Bloc Party. He was born in Liverpool on 13 October 1981 and grew up in London, England, United Kingdom. His parents are from Nigeria. He is openly gay.

</doc>
<doc id="145001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145001" title="Russell Lissack">
Russell Lissack

Russell Lissack (born 11 March 1981) is a British musician. He is the guitar player for the rock band Bloc Party and is also in the band Pin Me Down. He was born in Chingford in London.

</doc>
<doc id="145004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145004" title="Matt Tong">
Matt Tong

Matthew Chee Hung Tong or Matt Tong, is a British musician. He played the drums for the rock band Bloc Party. He was born in Bournemouth in England, United Kingdom but his parents were originally from England and Malaysia. He was born on April 29 1979. In 2006, he married Brooke Vermilion.

</doc>
<doc id="145006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145006" title="Gordon Moakes">
Gordon Moakes

Gordon Peter Moakes (born June 22, 1976) is an English bass guitar player and singer for the rock band Bloc Party. He can also play the drums and Glockenspiel. He was born in Milton Keynes, England, United Kingdom. He is the oldest member of Bloc Party.
Moakes has a tattoo of a heart on his left arm and he has a new-born child called Scarlet.

</doc>
<doc id="145021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145021" title="With the Lights Out">
With the Lights Out

With the Lights Out is a box-set album by the American grunge band Nirvana. It was released on November 23, 2004 on Geffen Records.
It was the only box set by Nirvana. It came out years after the band broke up after lead singer and guitarist Kurt Cobain died in 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="145029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145029" title="The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People">
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People

The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People is a book by Stephen R. Covey.
This book is about Ethics and Philosophy. It was published in 1989 and sold more than 15 million.

</doc>
<doc id="145031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145031" title="Kirchhoff's circuit laws">
Kirchhoff's circuit laws

In 1845, German physicist Gustav Kirchhoff described two laws about electrical circuits..
These laws are generalizations of Ohm's law.
Kirchhoff's circuit laws are very useful in solving circuit problems.
Kirchhoff's current law is also known as Kirchhoff's first law and Kirchhoff's junction law.
This law states that 'The sum of current into a junction equals the sum of current out of the junction'.
This is the same as Kirchhoff's junction law. 
In a junction, the electric charge's sum preservation law is applied.
If the entering value of the current is i2 and i3, this current splits into the current of i1 and i4. Then the equation (i1 + i4 = i2 + i3) is satisfied.
The right picture gives an example.
This Kirchhoff's first law is that charge is not destroyed or created in a junction point.
This is based by an electric charge preservation law. 
Kirchhoff's voltage law is also known as Kirchhoff's second law, a closed circuit law, and Kirchhoff's loop law.
The algebraic sum of the voltage (potential) differences in any loop must equal zero.(This circuit is a closed circuit)
Any complex circuit can be divided into many closed circuits.
This law means that in the circuit there is an electric cell and electric resistance.
The electric cell gives the charge a electromotive force, and then the electric resistance dissipates this force.
But in electric resistance if the direction is opposite of the current's direction, this electric resistance adds to the electromotive force.
This Kirchhoff's second law is based on potential energy preservation law.

</doc>
<doc id="145042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145042" title="Peter Henlein">
Peter Henlein

Peter Henlein (or Henle or Hele) (1479/1480 – August 1542), was a locksmith and watchmaker from Nuremberg. He is often said to be the inventor of the watch. This is disputed. Henlein was certainly one of the first makers of the watch. Although many say that Henlein invented the mainspring, there are descriptions and two surviving examples show that spring driven clocks had already been made by the early 1400s. He did make improvements to the balance spring, which made it possible to make the watches smaller.
Around 1504 to 1508 Henlein did make a watch; a small, drum-shaped "Taschenuhr". It could run for forty hours before it needed rewinding. They were small enough to be worn around the neck, or carried in a bag or pocket. His watch only had an hour hand.

</doc>
<doc id="145043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145043" title="Microfabrication">
Microfabrication

Microfabrication is making things which are very small. The earliest micromanufacturing was used to make the different parts of a computer circuit board.

</doc>
<doc id="145045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145045" title="Cavity magnetron">
Cavity magnetron

The cavity magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube that makes microwaves using the interaction of a stream of electrons with a magnetic field. The 'resonant' cavity magnetron type of the earlier magnetron tube was invented by John Randall and Harry Boot in 1940. The high power of pulses from the cavity magnetron made centimetre-band radar practical. Shorter wavelength radars allowed the finding of smaller objects. The small cavity magnetron tube made the size of radar sets much smaller so that they could be put into in aircraft and ships used to find submarines. At present, cavity magnetrons are commonly used in microwave ovens and in various radar applications.

</doc>
<doc id="145051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145051" title="Category:Talukas of Sindh">
Category:Talukas of Sindh


</doc>
<doc id="145052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145052" title="Sanghar">
Sanghar

Sanghar () is a city in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city is headquarters of Sanghar District and Sanghar Taluka (a subdivision of the district). It is an agricultural town about 265km from Karachi. Unfortunately, there is no railway station and airport in the city. But the city does have road links with Hyderabad, Nawabshah, Mirpur Khas and other major cities of Sindh. 

</doc>
<doc id="145053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145053" title="Category:Sanghar District">
Category:Sanghar District


</doc>
<doc id="145054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145054" title="Category:Districts of Sindh">
Category:Districts of Sindh


</doc>
<doc id="145055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145055" title="Category:Sindh">
Category:Sindh


</doc>
<doc id="145056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145056" title="Category:Badin District">
Category:Badin District


</doc>
<doc id="145059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145059" title="Dadu, Pakistan">
Dadu, Pakistan

Dadu () is town in Sindh, Pakistan. Dadu is the capital of Dadu District. The town is located at 26°44'0N 67°47'0E with an altitude of 24 metres (82 feet) and is divided into three Union councils.

</doc>
<doc id="145060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145060" title="Category:Dadu District">
Category:Dadu District


</doc>
<doc id="145062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145062" title="Category:Ghotki District">
Category:Ghotki District


</doc>
<doc id="145064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145064" title="Category:Hyderabad District">
Category:Hyderabad District


</doc>
<doc id="145065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145065" title="Hyderabad City Taluka">
Hyderabad City Taluka

Hyderabad City Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Hyderabad District is divided into 4 talukas, the Urban area around the capital Hyderabad is part of Hyderabad City Taluka.
The Taluka of Hyderabad city is administratively subdivided into 11 Union Councils.
During British rule the city of Hyderabad became the headquarters of Hyderabad Taluka - and for a time was part of the Bombay Presidency of British India.
According to the 1901 census, the taluka contained only one town - the capital, Hyderabad (population, 69,378). The taluka also at this time contained 98 villages and the population was 138,021, compared with 122,507 in 1891.

</doc>
<doc id="145066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145066" title="Hyderabad">
Hyderabad

Hyderabad can mean more than one city.

</doc>
<doc id="145067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145067" title="Hyderabad Taluka (rural)">
Hyderabad Taluka (rural)

Hyderabad Taluka (rural) is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Hyderabad district is subdivided into 4 talukas, the Urban area around the capital Hyderabad is part of Hyderabad City Taluka.
The rural Taluka of Hyderabad is administratively subdivided into 11 Union Councils, these are:

</doc>
<doc id="145068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145068" title="Hatri">
Hatri

Hatri is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It has a population of 29,719, and is located at 25°28'0N 68°24'0E lying to the north-east of the district capital - Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145069" title="Masu Bhurgri">
Masu Bhurgri

Masu Bhurgri is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It has a population of 24,362. It is located at 25°30'0N 68°28'0E to the north-east of the district capital - Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145070" title="Category:Union Councils of Sindh">
Category:Union Councils of Sindh


</doc>
<doc id="145071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145071" title="Moosa Khatiyan">
Moosa Khatiyan

Masu Bhurgri is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. 

</doc>
<doc id="145072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145072" title="Haji Sawan Khan Gopang">
Haji Sawan Khan Gopang

Haji Sawan Khan Gopang is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It has a population of 24,005.

</doc>
<doc id="145073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145073" title="Tando Qaiser">
Tando Qaiser

Tando Qaisar is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 25°22'60N 68°31'0E to the east of the district capital Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145074" title="Tando Hyder">
Tando Hyder

Tando Hyder is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad and is located at 25°22'60N 68°25'60E and lies to the east of the capital Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145075" title="Husri">
Husri

Husri is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad. It is located at 25°19'0N 68°25'0E and is south-east of the capital Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145076" title="Moolan">
Moolan

Moolan is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145077" title="Tando Fazal">
Tando Fazal

Tando Fazal is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad and is located at . It is south-east of the capital Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145078" title="Tando Jam">
Tando Jam

Tando Jam (ٽنڊوڄام) is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 25°25'60N 68°31'60E and is about 20 km away from Hyderabad city and 5 km from Tando Qaiser. It is on the Hyderabad to Mirpurkhas Road. 

</doc>
<doc id="145080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145080" title="Category:Jacobabad District">
Category:Jacobabad District


</doc>
<doc id="145082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145082" title="Jacobabad">
Jacobabad

Jacobabad is the capital city of Jacobabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city is also the administrative centre of Jacobabad Taluka, a subdivision of the district. The city itself is subdivided into 8 Union Councils.
Jacobabad is located at . The city is crossed by the Pakistan Railways and many main roads of the province. Jacobabad is said to be one of the hottest cities in Pakistan.
During British rule, as part of British India, the town was the headquarters of the Upper Sind Frontier District of the Bombay Presidency. It was famous for having the highest temperature in the Indian Subcontinent. In June the temperature is between 120° and 127 °F (49 to 53 °C).
The town was founded near the village of Khangarh in 1847 by Brigadier General John Jacob. General Jacob died here in 1858 and the city still bears his name.

</doc>
<doc id="145084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145084" title="Upper Sind Frontier District">
Upper Sind Frontier District

Upper Sind Frontier District was a district of the Bombay Presidency during British Rule in what is now the Sindh province of Pakistan. Sind is an old spelling of Sindh.
The district was the northernmost part of Sindh. It was bordered to the north and west by the Dera Ghazi Khan District of the Punjab and by Baluchistan, on the south by Sukkur District, and on the east by the river Indus.
The District contained one town, Jacobabad, and 390 villages. According to the 1872 census it had a population of 115,050. In 1881 the population was 145,180. In 1891 the population had risen to 174,548. According to the 1901 census the population was 232,045.
The increase in 1901 was the largest. This was due to immigration from Baluchistan and the Punjab as well as a change in the borders of the district. According to the 1901 census, the main language was Sindhi. Sindhi was spoken by 165,110 people in 1901 (71 per cent). The Baluchi and Siraiki languages were also spoken in all parts of the District. Muslims formed 90 per cent of the total population and Hindus 9 per cent.
Jacobabad was the capital of the district. The district was subdivided into five talukas:

</doc>
<doc id="145087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145087" title="Jamshoro">
Jamshoro

Jamshoro () is the capital city of Jamshoro District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is on the right bank of Indus River. It is about northwest of the city of Hyderabad.

</doc>
<doc id="145088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145088" title="Category:Jamshoro District">
Category:Jamshoro District


</doc>
<doc id="145092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145092" title="Category:Khairpur District">
Category:Khairpur District


</doc>
<doc id="145093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145093" title="Khairpur, Pakistan">
Khairpur, Pakistan

Khairpur (, khīr´poor) is the twelfth largest city in the province of Sindh in southeast Pakistan. Today it is the capital of Khairpur District . It was once the capital of the former princely state of Khayrpur.
According to the 1998 census, 102,188 lived there. At the 1981 census, there were only 61,447.

</doc>
<doc id="145095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145095" title="Khayrpur (princely state)">
Khayrpur (princely state)

Khayrpur or Khairpur was a princely state on the Indus River in what is now Pakistan, with its capital city at Khayrpur. Together with Bahawalpur to the north-east, the state was included with the Punjab states rather than the neighbouring Rajputana states (now Rajasthan) to the east. 

</doc>
<doc id="145098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145098" title="Bahawalpur (princely state)">
Bahawalpur (princely state)

Bahawalpur was a princely state of the Punjab in what is now Pakistan. It was on the southern bank of the Sutlej and Indus Rivers. Its capital city was Bahawalpur. 
In 1941, the state had 1,341,209 people. It covered 45,911 km² (17,494 sq mi). It was divided into three districts: Bahawalpur, Rahimyar Khan and Bahawalnagar.
The state was created in 1690 by Bahadur Khan II. In 1833 Nawab Mohammad Bahawal Khan III signed an agreement with the British guaranteeing the independence of the Nawab from the British. The state agreed to become part of Pakistan on 7 October 1947. The state was then merged into the province of West Pakistan on 14 October 1955.
Seraiki (also called Riasti) is the main language spoken. Urdu and Punjabi are also major languages.

</doc>
<doc id="145101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145101" title="Category:Larkana District">
Category:Larkana District


</doc>
<doc id="145103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145103" title="Dokri Taluka">
Dokri Taluka

Dokri Taluka () is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan, the city of Larkana is the capital. This taluka is located to the south of Larkana city. The most populated town in this taluka is Badah. Dadu and Rice canals pass through this taluka.
Dokri Taluka is administratively subdivided into 13 Union Councils.

</doc>
<doc id="145104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145104" title="Larkana">
Larkana

Larkana or Larkano (لاڑکانہ) is city of Sindh Province, Pakistan. The city is the capital of Larkana District. In August 2000 Larkana celebrated its hundred years of existence. It is located on the south bank of the Ghar canal, 40 miles south of Shikarpur town, and 36 north-east of Mehar.
During British rule Larkana became headquarters of Larkana District and Larkana Taluka – and for a time was part of the Bombay Presidency of British India. Also the North-Western Railway passed through the town. The population according to the 1901 census was 14,543.
Sindhi is the main language but Siraikis, a dialect of Sindhi which is similar to the Sindhi language, is also spoken. Sindhi and English are the official languages.

</doc>
<doc id="145105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145105" title="Larkana Taluka">
Larkana Taluka

Larkana Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Larkana is the capital.
During British rule Larkana became headquarters of Larkana District and Larkana Taluka - and for a time was part of the Bombay Presidency of British India.
In 1901 the population was 100,827, compared with 90,15l in 1891. At that time the taluka contains one town, Larkana and 72 villages. 
Larkana Taluka is administratively subdivided into 18 Union Councils.

</doc>
<doc id="145107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145107" title="Category:Matiari District">
Category:Matiari District


</doc>
<doc id="145110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145110" title="Category:Mirpur Khas District">
Category:Mirpur Khas District


</doc>
<doc id="145111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145111" title="Mirpur Khas">
Mirpur Khas

Mirpur Khas (/; meaning "the land of the most high mirs") is a city in the province of Sindh in Pakistan. It is the fourth largest city in the province with an estimated population of 124,371 (1981). It is the capital of Mirpur Khas District.
Its soil is fertile and the city is known for its horticulture produce and farming, of which the most celebrated is the mango cultivation with hundreds of varieties of mangoes produced each year.

</doc>
<doc id="145113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145113" title="Category:Nawabshah District">
Category:Nawabshah District


</doc>
<doc id="145114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145114" title="Allahabad, Sindh">
Allahabad, Sindh

Allahabad is a town of Nawabshah District in the southern Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 26°53'30N 67°45'0E.

</doc>
<doc id="145115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145115" title="Nawabshah Airport">
Nawabshah Airport

Nawabshah Airport is at Nawabshah, Sindh, Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="145117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145117" title="Category:Naushahro Feroze District">
Category:Naushahro Feroze District


</doc>
<doc id="145122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145122" title="Naushahro Feroze">
Naushahro Feroze

Naushahro Feroze () is town in Naushahro Feroze District, Sindh, Pakistan. It is the capital of Naushahro Feroze District.

</doc>
<doc id="145124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145124" title="Tando Allahyar">
Tando Allahyar

Tando Allahyar (, ) is a town in Sindh, Pakistan. It is the capital of Tando Allahyar District.

</doc>
<doc id="145125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145125" title="Category:Tando Allahyar District">
Category:Tando Allahyar District


</doc>
<doc id="145127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145127" title="Began Jarwar">
Began Jarwar

Began Jarwar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Chamber Taluka. It is in the south of the district to the southeast of the district capital Tando Allahyar at 25°25'35N 68°50'20E. The Union Council has 41,890 people.

</doc>
<doc id="145128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145128" title="Bukera Sharif">
Bukera Sharif

Bukera Sharif is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka in the southwest of the district.

</doc>
<doc id="145129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145129" title="Dad Khan Jarwar">
Dad Khan Jarwar

Dad Khan Jarwar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It has 65,295 people. It is part of Chamber Taluka. It is in the south of the district at 25°19'5N 68°43'20E.

</doc>
<doc id="145130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145130" title="Dasori">
Dasori

Dasori is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It has a population of 49,427 and is part of Jhando Mari Taluka.

</doc>
<doc id="145131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145131" title="Dhaghano Bozdar">
Dhaghano Bozdar

Dhaghano Bozdar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. The Union Council has 56,892 people. It is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka. It is in the west of the district.

</doc>
<doc id="145132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145132" title="Mirabad">
Mirabad

Mirabad is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It has 57,361 people. It is in the northeast of the district where it forms part of Jhando Mari Taluka.

</doc>
<doc id="145133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145133" title="Missan">
Missan

Missan is a Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in Sindh, Pakistan. It is one of the largest Union Councils of the District, it has a population of over 13,000.

</doc>
<doc id="145134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145134" title="Pak Singhar">
Pak Singhar

Pak Singhar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is and is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka. It is southeast of the capital. The Union Council has 43,473 people.

</doc>
<doc id="145135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145135" title="Piyaro Lund">
Piyaro Lund

Piyaro Lund is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan, it has 23,613 people. It is part of Jhando Mari Taluka. It is in the south of the district.

</doc>
<doc id="145136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145136" title="Sanjar Chang">
Sanjar Chang

Piyaro Lund is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is and is part of Chamber Taluka and is in the southeast of the district, the Union Council has 35,169 people.

</doc>
<doc id="145137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145137" title="Shaikh Moosa">
Shaikh Moosa

Shaikh Moosa is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka. It is in the centre of the district. The Union Council has 65,776 people.

</doc>
<doc id="145138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145138" title="Tando Soomaro">
Tando Soomaro

Tando Soomro, or Tando Soomaro, is a village and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Tando Soomro lies 7 km to the north-west of the district capital - Tando Allahyar at 25°31'60N 68°40'60E.
Tando Soomro has many different communities or ‘Zaats’. There are two main communities in Tando Soomro: Nizamanis and Khaskhalis. There are also Maachhis, Bhayas, Narayjaas, Gurati Hindus, Dayaas, Syeds or Shah, Mirzas, Manganhars, Menghwaars, Koriyaa & Pashtuns, Wadhaas, Shiekh or Khatis, Shoraas, Brohis, Pakhiara or Kihaas and Mirjats. The number of non-Muslims is 16,786, or 32% of the population which is significantly higher than the national average of 4%.

</doc>
<doc id="145140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145140" title="Category:State parks in the United States">
Category:State parks in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="145151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145151" title="Jalalabad">
Jalalabad

Jalalabad () is a city in eastern Afghanistan. Jalalabad is the capital of Nangarhar province. It is linked by about of road with Kabul to the west. It is also about the same distance to Peshawar in Pakistan to the east.
Although most of the people of Jalalabad are Pashtun, a few Dari-speaking Tajikslive there, too. Sunni Islam is the main religion of the people. 

</doc>
<doc id="145155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145155" title="Politics of Pakistan">
Politics of Pakistan

The Politics of Pakistan has seen many changes over the years. The military have sometimes been running the country. Recently however the country has returned to democratic rule.
Pakistan is a federal republic, at the moment, the President of Pakistan is the head of state and the Prime Minister is head of government.

</doc>
<doc id="145156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145156" title="Category:Government of Pakistan">
Category:Government of Pakistan


</doc>
<doc id="145158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145158" title="President of Pakistan">
President of Pakistan

The President of Pakistan (, "Sadr-e-Mumlikat") is the head of state of Pakistan. Pakistan has a parliamentary form of government. According to the Constitution, the President is chosen by the Electoral College to serve a five-year term. The electoral college is made up of the Senate, National Assembly, and the provincial assemblies.
The position of president in Pakistan has usually been one of a figurehead. That is with real power being given to the Prime Minister. However the power of the president has changed over the years, due to the military changing the role.
In 1947, Pakistan became a dominion and part of the British Commonwealth with the British Monarch as head of state, represented by the Governor-General of Pakistan. In 1956 Pakistan established its first constitution and became a Republic, and the Queen and Governor-General were replaced by the president.
Pakistan's first president was Iskander Mirza, who was also the last Governor General. In 1958, he removed the constitution and declared martial law. A few weeks later, he was overthrown by General Ayub Khan, who then declared himself president. The constitution was changed and the president became the ruler of Pakistan. The constitution also said that the president be elected by the people. Elections were held in 1963, and Khan defeated Fatima Jinnah, sister of founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah.

</doc>
<doc id="145163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145163" title="Bakrani">
Bakrani

Bakrani () is a town in Larkana District, Sindh province of Pakistan. This town is 12 km south of Larkana city on the Larkana-Mohenjo-daro road. It has an altitude of 53 metres and is the headquarters of Bakrani Taluka.

</doc>
<doc id="145166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145166" title="Ratodero">
Ratodero

Ratodero is the capital of Ratodero Taluka a "sub-division" of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is located some 30 km away from the district capital Larkana.
Ratodero Taluka is administratively subdivided into 9 Union Councils two of which form the town of Ratodero these are:
There have been many people from Ratodero including two former Prime Ministers - Zulfikar and Benazir Bhutto.

</doc>
<doc id="145173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145173" title="Languages of Pakistan">
Languages of Pakistan

English is the official language of Pakistan. Urdu is the national language despite not being a native language or being the mother tongue of any native group in the country. There are also provincial languages, Balochi language, Pashto, Saraiki, Sindhi and Punjabi, and one state language (Kashmiri language).
Pakistan is heir to one of the most ancient civilzations in the world along with Iraq and Egypt, and it is only to be expected that its languages, too, have ancient roots. These primary languages have not been used in the domains of power because the rulers of these regions were generally foreigners. But the foreigners, whether the Persians, Greeks, Arabs, Turco-Mongols as well as the British, have all enriched the indigenous languages so that their vocabulary is multilingual and varied. As the people of these areas converted to Islam, Arabic and Persian words influenced and became part of their identity, and remain so. In a sense, it is their very presence, as well as the Arabic-based scripts of all 75 Pakistani languages, which gave them a cultural unity. Linguistically, Pakistan faces two directions: India, because the roots of its languages are Dravidian as well as Indo-Aryan; and the Middle East, because its scripture and vocabulary owe very much so to Arabic and based on Farsi, for e.g. the national anthem is a highly Persianized form of Urdu.
other languages include burushaski, balti, domaaki , gawar-bati , Erina , shina and brahvi.

</doc>
<doc id="145183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145183" title="Empedocles">
Empedocles

Empedocles was a Greek pre-Socratic philosopher and a person who lived in Agrigentum, a Greek colony in Sicily. 
Empedocles' philosophy is best known for being the origin of the cosmogenic theory of the four classical elements in the Western world. He also proposed powers called Love and Strife which would act as forces to bring about the mixture and separation of the elements. These physical speculations were part of a history of the universe which also dealt with the origin and development of life. 
Influenced by the Pythagoreans, he supported the doctrine of reincarnation. Empedocles is generally considered the last Greek philosopher to record his ideas in verse. Some of his work still survives today, more so than in the case of any other Presocratic philosopher. Empedocles' death was mythologized by ancient writers, and has been the subject of a number of literary treatments.

</doc>
<doc id="145184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145184" title="Forensic psychology">
Forensic psychology

Forensic psychology is a branch of psychology which relates to the law. The main part of forensic psychology is working with the criminal justice system.
Forensic psychology is the use of psychological practices and principles and applying them to the legal system, mainly in court. In 1893 James McKeen Cattell at Columbia University was the first to research and study the psychology of testimony. 
The American Psychological Association Council of Representatives in 2001 recognized Forensic psychology as a specialty. A broad definition for forensic psychology includes two parts. The first part is to research human behavior that is and/or can be related to the legal process. The second is the use of psychological practice to consult on and within the legal system, including both criminal and civil law. 
The public part of a forensic psychologist’s time is spent in a courtroom working as a witness for the court. He or she answers questions based on interviews and discussions with people suspected of a crime. One aspect of the forensic psychologist is to give evidence as to the suspect’s ability to stand trial. Another is his or her thoughts about the accused's state of mind at the time of the offense. At sentencing, a forensic psychologist may give evidence of mitigating circumstances arising from the acuused's condition at the time.
Forensic psychology has some major roles in a court that bring psychology into a legal arena. The first is "malingering" a defendant is pretending to have a mental illness, or is lying to the court about his state of mind. A forensic psychologist keeps in mind that a defendant may have a mental disorder but also keeps in mind to watch for signs of deception, or errors in the defendant’s story. Another job of a forensic psychologist is to investigate the state of mind of the defendant at the time he or she committed the crime. Another is to see whether or not the defendant is able to be charged with the crimes due to his or her mental condition. Another job is to evaluate the defendant to see if he or she are able to be rehabilitated, or if they might commit the crime again. 
The branch of psychology known as Forensic psychology has been in existence for a little over 50 years. This branch of psychology has gone through many changes throughout the years.
These changes have been possible due to a development in different ways to assess psychological factors. These assessments are used in courtrooms in order to work to understand behaviors which are criminal or abnormal. These tests include but are not limited to: The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, the Rorschach Ink Blot Test and The Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory. 
The ancient Greeks and Romans were the ones to first introduce the concept of insanity to the law. One of the first cases was Rex v. Arnold in 1723 in which Edward Arnold "Mad Ned" shot and injured Lord Onslow. As a result, Edward Arnold was found guilty and sentenced to death. But, Lord Onslow was not satisfied with this decision and said instead he should remain in prison for life. The judge ruled in his favor and that the behavior after the crime was admissible. This ruling set the stage for future trials to consider medical testimony and examinations performed after the crime. 
The Rorschach Ink Blot Test was developed in the 1930s by a man named Hermann Rorschach. With this test, subjects were shown an ambiguous blot of ink on a page and were asked to describe what they see. Based on the response of the subject, they are then evaluated using a scale which can then provide inferences about their personality characteristics as well as emotional functioning. Based on the contributions of this test, it has been used in multiple court proceedings including but not limited to criminal, civil, domestic, and quasi-legal. 

</doc>
<doc id="145187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145187" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/FastReverter">
Wikipedia:Editor review/FastReverter

 Hi. I saw this link in the header and thought I would check it out. Honestly, give me a review that really explains how much I have done in the short time as a editor here. () 14:22, 9 December 2008 (UTC) () 14:22, 9 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="145188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145188" title="Tag team">
Tag team

In professional wrestling, a tag team is a team of two wrestlers who are working together as a team (more than two is called a stable). Most of the time they are close partners and backstage friends who team with each other almost all the time, while other times they are wrestlers that fight by themselves most of the time who team together for just one match.
They usually wrestle against the same number of other wrestlers on the other team or teams, however in the occasional "handicap match" there may be more wrestlers on one team then the other, for example André the Giant often wrestled against two or more opponents.

</doc>
<doc id="145198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145198" title="Tajja">
Tajja

Tajja(타짜 in Korean) means a professional gambler in Korea. Tajja is a comic book drew by the Korean best cartoonist "Heo Young-Man", written by the author "Kim Se-Young". This novel was once serialized in the newspaper 'Donga-ilbo'. Tajja was made in a book on 2006 september 28th. Tajja has made a 'Tajja syndrome' right away the publication among the adult readers. Recently, although this comic book is a adult-comic, every ages and sex is watching this comic book. Tajja has shown the human's desire in the front.
To do so, cartoonist "Heo Young-Man" based on a thorough collection of data by himself. He went everywhere if you could gather a information about his comic.
Tajja won high praises without stint through its production that perfectly penetrated the material and a reality which it makes us an illusion like we are watching a movie.
Because Heo Young-Man is the cartoonist who Korean likes the best, the reader can feel Heo Young-Man's value through Tajja.
The story is about a guy who is born in South Korea, Busan. He was a normal child as others.
But one day he went to a gambling house by coincidence. That was the problem, he lost all of his money, and brought his sisters money which must be used in a marriage of her sister.
Of course he lost all of his money again. So the story starts from now on to be a professional gambler and gather lots of money.

</doc>
<doc id="145200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145200" title="Opportunity cost">
Opportunity cost

Opportunity cost is the value of the next best thing you give up whenever you make a decision. It is "the loss of potential gain from other alternatives when one alternative is chosen". 
The idea of an opportunity cost was first begun by John Stuart Mill. The utility has to be more than the opportunity cost for it to be a good choice in economics.
For example, opportunity cost is how much leisure time we give up to work. Because leisure and income are both valued, we have to decide whether to work, or do what we want. Going to work implies more income but less leisure. Staying at home is more leisure yet less income.
Another example is deciding to stop work to go back to university. By choosing to go to university, your opportunity cost is losing your job and your pay check. Even though going back to university has a big opportunity cost, many people think it is a good decision because increased education gives you more job opportunities.

</doc>
<doc id="145207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145207" title="Virgin Killer">
Virgin Killer

Virgin Killer is the fourth album by the German heavy metal band Scorpions. It was released in 1976, and it helped the Scorpions gain fans outside Europe. The album's cover has caused controversy, as it features a naked young girl. Some of the band members have said that the cover is okay, but others have said that they feel bad about releasing it. Some magazines and websites, such as "Cracked" and Gigwise.com, have called it one of the worst album covers of all time.
In 2008, the English Wikipedia page for "Virgin Killer" was put on a blacklist (a list of bad content) by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), a UK organization. Because of this, many major Internet service providers (ISPs) in the UK were banned from seeing the page. The IWF called the cover "indecent".

</doc>
<doc id="145209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145209" title="Dendrobium">
Dendrobium

Dendrobium is one of the largest genus of orchids with about 1000 species being known. Being such a large geoup creates much diversity. Dendrobiums are found only in the Eastern Hemisphere and range from Australia, throughout the South Pacific and Philippines, Southeast Asia, and India, and a small representation in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="145212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145212" title="BBC HD">
BBC HD

BBC HD was a high-definition television channel provided by the BBC. The service was initially run as a trial from 15 May 2006 until becoming a full service on 1 December 2007. The first HD originated program to be shown on the channel was "Planet Earth", shown on 27 May 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="145213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145213" title="Manta ray">
Manta ray

The manta ray ("Manta birostris") is the largest species of the rays. The largest known specimen was more than across, with a weight of about . It ranges throughout tropical waters of the world, typically around coral reefs. They have the largest brain-to-body ratio of the sharks, rays and skates (Elasmobranchii), a brain which is kept warm during lengthy dives to as deep as in cold water.
Mantas may be at least two different species, the giant manta ("Manta birostris"), which migrates, and another smaller one called the reef manta ("Manta alfredi"), which does not. The genus may need revising.
Manta rays are probably at the top of the food chain. Some shark species, such as the tiger shark may hunt them. 

</doc>
<doc id="145234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145234" title="Yulia Barsukova">
Yulia Barsukova

Yulia Vladimirovna Barsukova (Russian Ю́лия Влади́мировна Барсуко́ва,) December 31, 1979, Moscow,Russia) is a Russian former rhythmic gymnast. She won the all-around gold medal at the Sydney Olympics. She left gymnastic to pursue a career in couple figure skating alongside her ex-husband and soon left the sport and gave birth to a child in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="145235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145235" title="Book of Baruch">
Book of Baruch

The Book of Baruch, sometimes called 1 Baruch, is a deuterocanonical or apocryphal book of the Bible. Even though it is not in the Hebrew Bible, it is in the Septuagint and in the Vulgate Bible, and also in Theodotion's version of the Bible. The Book of Baruch has different prophecies. It is considered sacred by Catholics and members of the Orthodox Church but not by Protestants. Catholic Bibles also add the Letter of Jeremiah to the Book of Baruch as a sixth chapter.

</doc>
<doc id="145252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145252" title="Korea Baseball Organization">
Korea Baseball Organization

The Korea baseball organization (KBO) manages and administrates Korean professional baseball League. In addition, KBO works on many things about baseball. First of all, KBO collects and keeps baseball records. Second, KBO supports amateur baseball. Third, KBO works for international exchange or activities such as Olympic game and World Baseball Classic(WBC) and so on. Fourth, KBO supplies and develops baseball skills. KBO was established with Korean professional baseball league in 1982. KBO’s main office is located in 946-16, Do-kok dong (), Kang-nam ku (), Seoul (), South Korea. In Korean league, there are 10 teams which are Lotte Giants, Samsung Lions, SK Wyverns, LG Twins, Doosan Bears, Hanwha Eagles, KIA Tigers, Nexen Heroes, NC Dinos, and KT Wiz.
Each team plays totally 133 games per one year. These 133 games are called the pennant race. After the pennant race, top four teams go to tournament. Firstly, semi-final game is called semi-play off. In this Semi-playoff, two teams (3rd and 4th in the pennant race) play the game and a team which wins 3 games of total 5 games goes to the next stage. The next stage is called playoff. And this is also 3 out of 5(A team wins 3 games first, then that team can go to next stage.). In playoff, a team which is a winner of semi-playoff plays with 2nd team in the pennant race. A winner of playoff plays with 1st team in the pennant race. This is called Korean series. This is 4 out of 7. (If a team wins 4 games first, that team becomes the team of that year.) In Korean league, there is also all star game like major league baseball(MLB)in America. KBO manages all of these games.
The president of KBO is Gu boneneung in 2011. KBO consists of many groups such as an executive office, KBOP, an umpire committee, a record committee and an education committee. As not permanent committees, there are a prizes and penalties committee, a rules committee and an advisory committee.

</doc>
<doc id="145257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145257" title="Scorpions (band)">
Scorpions (band)

Scorpions are a heavy metal/hard rock band from Hanover, Germany, probably best known for their 1980s rock anthem "Rock You Like a Hurricane" and their singles "No One Like You", "Still Loving You", and "Wind of Change". The band has sold over 100 million albums worldwide and were ranked #46 on VH1's "Greatest Artists of Hard Rock" program.

</doc>
<doc id="145266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145266" title="Internet Watch Foundation">
Internet Watch Foundation

The Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) is an organisation in the United Kingdom that gets reports from people and acts on those reports. They help remove things that could be illegal content on the Internet. 

</doc>
<doc id="145268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145268" title="Shakargarh">
Shakargarh

Shakargarh, the headquarters of Shakargarh Tehsil, is a city in the north-east of Pakistan in Narowal District of Punjab province. The city is at 32°16'0N 75°10'0E and is on the west bank of the Ravi River.
In old times Shakargarh was used as a route for the Mughals to enter Gurdaspur and going to Delhi. During British rule (before the independence of Pakistan), Shakargarh town became the capital of Shakargarh Tehsil.
In 1947 when the British were leaving, they divided British India between Pakistan and the modern republic of India. The border between the two countries was known as the Radcliffe Line (this was named after Cyril John Radcliffe who drew the borders). The line divided Shakargarh from the rest of Gurdaspur district (which then became part of India). Shakargarh then became part of Sialkot District, however when Narowal District was created in 1991, Shakargarh became part of that district.

</doc>
<doc id="145270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145270" title="X-Forwarded-For">
X-Forwarded-For

The X-Forwarded-For (XFF) HTTP header is a standard for finding the IP address of a client connecting to a web server through an HTTP proxy or load balancer comes from. 

</doc>
<doc id="145282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145282" title="BT Group">
BT Group

British Telecommunications Group plc which trades as BT, (sometimes known as British Telecom and still occasionally referred to by that name) is the privatised UK state telecommunications operator.
BT Group is the largest communications service provider in the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="145283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145283" title="Virgin Media">
Virgin Media

Virgin Media Inc. (formerly known as ntl:Telewest, after a merger of NTL Incorporated with Telewest Global, Inc.), became in 2006 the first "quadruple-play" media company in the United Kingdom, bringing together a service consisting of television, Internet, mobile phone and fixed-line telephone services.

</doc>
<doc id="145284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145284" title="Be Unlimited">
Be Unlimited

Be Unlimited, or simply "Be", is a growing UK Internet service provider. "Be Unlimited" and "Be" are trading names of "Be Un Limited".

</doc>
<doc id="145285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145285" title="Demon Internet">
Demon Internet

Demon Internet is a British Internet Service Provider. It was one of the earliest ISPs, one of the UK's first, especially targeting the "dialup" audience starting on 1 June 1992 from an idea posted on CIX by Cliff Stanford of Demon Systems Ltd.

</doc>
<doc id="145286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145286" title="List of General Secretaries of the Soviet Union">
List of General Secretaries of the Soviet Union

General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was the top position in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. As the leader of the only legal political party, the General Secretary served as both the head of government and head of state, although the actual head of government was the Premier. Before Stalin turned the position of General Secretary into the most powerful in the Soviet Union, the Premier was the leader of the country. Lenin led the nation as Premier.
The office was called First Secretary from 1953-66. 

</doc>
<doc id="145291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145291" title="Bachelor">
Bachelor

A bachelor is a man who has not been married and is not cohabiting. He lives on his own or with a flatmate/housemate. A woman in this situation is sometimes known as a bachelorette. A bachelor cannot have been married, as a man who married but then divorced is called a divorcé. A man whose wife is dead is a widower.
Sometimes, when a bachelor is going to be married, a bachelor party is organized to celebrate the last day that the person will be a bachelor for. 

</doc>
<doc id="145297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145297" title="Nativity scene">
Nativity scene

A nativity scene is a three-dimensional depiction of the Nativity of Jesus. It is also called a crib, manger, or crèche. Typically, a large scale scene includes the Holy Family, angels, the Magi, the ox and the donkey, and an assortment of shepherds, villagers, servants, and others.
There are two types of scenes: static representations of figures made of clay or other material and living scenes. Static scenes are often displayed on a table top in the home. In living scenes, humans and animals portray the characters in the scene. 
St. Francis of Assisi is said to have created the first nativity scene in 1223 (a "living" one) near Greccio, Italy. It was a "hit". The scene's popularity inspired communities throughout Catholic countries to stage similar scenes.
In the modern world, nativity scenes have provoked controversy. Animals are said to be abused in living scenes and objections have been placed against static scenes displayed on public lands. In addition, outdoor scenes are often the target of vandals. Theft or destruction of outdoor figures is not uncommon.

</doc>
<doc id="145306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145306" title="KBO">
KBO

KBO can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="145335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145335" title="MediaWiki:Sitenotice id">
MediaWiki:Sitenotice id

3

</doc>
<doc id="145340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145340" title="Underwater diving">
Underwater diving

Different types of underwater diving include :

</doc>
<doc id="145344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145344" title="Static electricity">
Static electricity

Static electricity means the increase of electric charge on the surface of objects. This electric charge remains on an object until it either flows into the ground, or loses its charge quickly by a discharge. Charge exchange can happen in conditions like when different objects are rubbed and separated. A static charge will only remain when one of the surfaces has a high resistance to electrical flow. The effects of static electricity are familiar to most people because they can see, feel and even hear the spark. This spark happens when the excess charge is neutralized. This neutralization occurs when excess charge flows into an electrical conductor (for example a path to ground). Other charge flow occurs when a charged object is near a region with an excess charge of the opposite polarity (positive or negative). The familiar phenomenon of a static 'shock' is caused by the neutralization of charge.
In Greek age, Thales found static electricity when he was cleaning his amber. But at that time, they did not pay attention to this and research it. They just knew that rubbing something made a pulling force. Earnest research into static electricity was started in the 17th century, when Otto von Guericke made the first friction generator. And in the 18th century, Coulomb started research into a fixed quantity of static electricity. Benjamin Franklin associated static electricity with storms. In 1832 Michael Faraday published the results of his experiment on the identity of electricities. This report proved that the electricity made by using a magnet, voltaic electricity produced by a battery, and static electricity are all the same. Since Faraday's result, the history of static electricity can be thought as the study of electricity in general.
Many situations can cause static electricity.
Static discharge is excess charge that is neutralized by a flow of charges from or to the surroundings. Positive charges get 
electrons from the surroundings, and negative charges lose their electrons to the surroundings.
The feeling of a static electric shock is caused by the stimulation of nerves as the neutralizing current flows through the human body. Due to the presence of much water in the body, the charge is generally not enough to cause a dangerously high current. Lightning is also an example of static discharge. A cloud gets a very huge charge by clashing with other clouds. It gives off the excess charge to the ground. But this huge charge never occurs in the human's surroundings naturally, unless he is struck by the lightning.
Despite the apparently harmless nature of static electricity, there can be significant risks in research, because a large charge can break down the equipment.

</doc>
<doc id="145347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145347" title="Category:1721 deaths">
Category:1721 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="145348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145348" title="Category:1973 songs">
Category:1973 songs


</doc>
<doc id="145355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145355" title="Submandibular gland">
Submandibular gland

The submandibular glands are salivary glands. They are under the bottom part of the mouth.

</doc>
<doc id="145359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145359" title="Military diving">
Military diving

Military diving is a type of underwater diving.
In one type of military diving, the diver has metal cylinders attached to his/her back. This type of diving has existed since World War Two.
There are also other types of military diving.

</doc>
<doc id="145362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145362" title="Dagens Næringsliv">
Dagens Næringsliv

Dagens Næringsliv is one of Norway's main newspapers. The newspaper was first named "Norges Sjøfartstidende". It was founded in 1889. 

</doc>
<doc id="145367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145367" title="FSK">
FSK

FSK ("Forsvarets spesialkommando") is the name of the special forces of Norway's Ministry of Defence. They were established in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="145368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145368" title="Piping and instrumentation diagram">
Piping and instrumentation diagram

A piping and instrument diagram (P&ID) is a simplified illustration or diagram of a process. It shows the required functional equipment and instrumentation to make the process work. Typically, this document is the basis of design for plant engineering.

</doc>
<doc id="145371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145371" title="Nanjing Greenland Financial Center">
Nanjing Greenland Financial Center

Nanjing Greenland Financial Center or Greenland Square Zifeng Tower is a skyscraper in Nanjing, China. It is 459 meters (1476 feet) tall and has 89 floors. It was built in 2009 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

</doc>
<doc id="145380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145380" title="Modular arithmetic">
Modular arithmetic

Modular arithmetic, sometimes also called clock arithmetic, is a way of doing arithmetic with integers. Much like hours on a clock, which repeat every twelve hours, once the numbers reach a certain value, called the "modulus", they go back to zero.
People talked about modular arithmetic in many ancient cultures. For instance, the Chinese remainder theorem is many centuries old. The modern notation and exact definition of modular arithmetic were first described by Carl Friedrich Gauss.
Modular arithmetic can be used to show the idea of congruence. Two integers, "a" and "b", are congruent modulo n if they have the same remainder when both are divided by the positive integer "n". Congruence can be written this way:
The number "n" is called the modulus. Another definition of congruence, that means the same thing but is sometimes more useful, is that the two integers are congruent modulo n if the difference ("a" - "b") is an integer multiple of "n". That is, if "n" is a factor of ("a" - "b"), then "a" and "b" are congruent mod "n".
For example:
The remainder when 32 is divided by 7 is 4, and the remainder when 11 is divided by 7 is also 4. This tell us they're congruent, mod 7.
We can use this example it with the other definition too. The difference, ("a" - "b"), is 32 - 11 = 21. This shows the two numbers are congruent because 21 = 3 * 7, and 7 is a factor of 21.
Modular arithmetic is useful in many fields, such as cryptography, computer science, and music. It is often used in calculating checksums and check digits.

</doc>
<doc id="145386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145386" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Start">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Start


</doc>
<doc id="145387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145387" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Through">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Through


</doc>
<doc id="145388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145388" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Out">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Out


</doc>
<doc id="145391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145391" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 50">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 50

I know I'm not the only user who is sick and tired of the bot-like IP Pakistan editor. He is a regular contributor, but he has never created any account to my knowledge; he creates POV articles, full of red links to non-notable topics, and worst of all, he's started adding dead images. He's never commented on a talk page, despite having numerous blocks, and numerous editors trying to communicate. Eptalon has, unlike me, assumed that the editor will get better with time. I strongly disagree anything will change. If this was one logged-in user, he'd have a block log a mile long, and we should really be considering a ban, and revert/remove any edits this user makes. Frankly, we'll be much better off without his biased, badly formatted articles on non-notable Pakistan-related topics. 17:30, 25 November 2008 (UTC)
I believe the point of this is that hes creating an unnecessary amount of work here. Everything he does needs to be fixed. Previously I was opposed to blocking but its getting out of hand at this point and something needs to be done. 17:49, 25 November 2008 (UTC)
edit conflict: Yes, the IP's s/he edits from in the 92.x.xxx.xxx range are in Manchester. I don't think the user deserves a block. For one thing, much of the material on Wikipedia about Pakistan is contributed by this editor, and I think that this is of high value to the Encyclopedia. Although some of the behavior exhibited by the user is not very favorable (no communication with other editors), I think that blocking him will be ineffective (as he can switch IP addresses) and wrong (just because the editor's poorly-formatted articles give editors a task to do, doesn't mean the edits are bad). POV material should not be deleted, but kept and maybe an Indian point of view or something should be added. I think an encyclopedia cannot be completely without point of view, and that it should cover many sides. "Minority" viewpoints should have a brief mention as well, if they have been published. As for the dead images, they were probably in articles copied from Enwiki, and can be removed.
The image inclusion is probably the insertion of an image he saw at enwiki, and he is probably learning how to include images. Give this editor some time. "Poorly formatted" does not mean that the content is useless. It just gives you something to do. As for "non-notable", not all his topics are non-notable (many have articles on Enwiki).
I am not sure whether 92.0.0.0/12 is Pahari Sahib or 212 or 195. They may all be different people. It is likely that Pahari Sahib is either 212 or 195, as he seems capable of communicating with other users. But I know little about the case, so I'm not an authoritative source or anything on who the Pakistan editor is. 
To Matilda: You, in all the time you have contributed to Wikipedia, should know that content copied from English Wikipedia to another Wikipedia does not violate copyright, as Wikipedia is a free content encyclopedia. If the content was copied from another website, then it was probably a Wikipedia scraper site (like NationMaster). 20:06, 25 November 2008 (UTC)
That article was probably taken from Wikipedia itself, and not from Jalal's Pages. Jalal may have copied it on his webpage, or the Pakistan Editor may have unknowingly copied it from Wikipedia, assuming it was free, which makes Sisiqui the plagiarist. 20:51, 25 November 2008 (UTC)
Recently the Pakistan IP is editing under and a new problem is that he keeps and copying-'n'-pasting from EN, using unsimple English and making redirects with uncommon spellings. Although his editing has improved, I'm afraid he still hasn't learnt his main lesson, that is, he keeps running unapproved 'bots' under IPs to escape blocks deliberately. I also warned one of his other IPs many weeks ago to include references when writing about people, and even now, he "still" hasn't. - 23:54, 28 November 2008 (UTC)
There seems to be agreement here that this person is more trouble than they're worth. I shall be continuing my block on sight practice here. I hope other admins follow this practice, before this wiki is destroyed by POV copyvio articles on non-notable Pakistan topics. 00:14, 29 November 2008 (UTC)
Matilda: We should take the educational approach, trying to get this editor to communicate with us. Since you clearly do not advocate that practice, and instead want to go on about petty nonsense like NPOV that has no basis in reality, you should not involve yourself in this sensitive case. You do not take an approach that negotiates with the editor, and you seem to think that if he doesn't respond to the warnings, then he should be blocked. This is just another reason that I would not trust you as an administrator, knowing that you want this editor blocked. The editor clearly has trouble with something, either the language being used to communicate with him is too complex, or someone told him not to "chat" or "talk" to anybody, but just to complete the assignment (and then when the assignment was done, he just kept that in mind and thought to always follow that rule), or he works for some organization and doesn't know anything about Wikipedia. He might just learn differently. No matter what, the last thing we should do is block. 
As for plagiarism and copyright violations, try to contact the owner of the website and ask if the editor has permission to reproduce the work.
To Eptalon: A consortium is like an association, a federation of organizations, or a group of people.
I recommend that an editor who speaks Urdu to try to talk to this editor, and see if that works. Right now, I do not know of an editor on Simple Wikipedia that speaks it. 00:51, 1 December 2008 (UTC)
The 195 IP addresses geolocate to JANET CSIRT: http://ja.net/services/csirt
Please also see: 
If the material was copied from Enwiki, but it happened not to have belonged here either, then it should be deleted. That still doesn't make the Pak editor a plagiarist. To consider copies from enwiki of perfectly legitimate material plagiarism is unnecessary rules-following, in my opinion. I do, however, think material should be simplified if it was copied from Enwiki. That is our job.
Our focus should not be following the rules no matter what. If the rules get in the way of our primary objective, which is to get him to communicate with us and to learn, then we are not obligated to follow them, unless they are law. For instance, the NPOV thing. Your focus on rules and rules only (not the primary objective of education) is the "go[ing] on about petty nonsense" thing. 
We should not template warn him. That is the issue that I have with AErn fatsoen. All he does is template warn and consider everything that doesn't fit the typical Wikipedia mold to be vandalism. The educational approach is not to warn with templates. 
Neutral Point of View is an afterthought. I don't care about it. It is not our focus in this case. 
Synergy: Don't do that. That's not ethical. We are not English Wikipedia, Czarist Russia, or any other institution that practices such unjust practices. 02:29, 1 December 2008 (UTC)
As some of you may know I recently had a with about my sig being too long. While it fit the 3 line limit in my of but not in her's (or ). So I changed it as many of you know so it complies. My point being the and I quote: "signatures that take up more than two or three lines in the edit window clutter the page and make it harder to distinguish posts from signatures," I personally think we need to set a standard screen res so we don't keep running into that problem. I would say about . Opinions please.--    06:13, 26 November 2008 (UTC)
Hello there. Is there anyne interested in reogranising the Mormonism-related subjects into a consisted hierarchy? - My personal opionion:
This seems to hold for the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (our article here is ill-named), and the biggest Mormon group. The second-biggest movement, Community of Christ seems to be pretty close to mainline Protestant Christianity - they have a trinitarian view, they don't see the Book of Mormon as scripture (and their baptism is accepted as a Christian one). I am not qualified to write sucvh an article, but I think following this discovery, our Mormonism related articles need rewriting. Anyone up to the task? -- () 11:43, 26 November 2008 (UTC)
I went ahead and asked of to see if they can help. To avoid cross posting, I'd rather discuss it there. -- 11:09, 30 November 2008 (UTC)
Hi simple wikipedia, I have over the past few months written a web app that translates -to some degree- regular English to simple English automatically, intending to help with the development of this wikipedia.</br>
The main part of the program right now is a list of 2000 simple word substitutions, which can be seen (and improved) .
Im aware of the challenges and limitations in the automated treatment of the English language and I have made this program in a careful way. I address this here. The program makes no changes to Links, quotes, or references, is not intended as a substitute for human edits, though I have considered trying to fork it into a bot in some form.
Soon I hope to involve word disambiguity, and dependent clause repair. I could use some help here, msg me, its o/s.
Is this a useful program? really, or what. tell me what you think, Because it was sort of annoying to make, and I think its a good idea. </br>
Cheers () 17:22, 26 November 2008 (UTC)
yep! its sure got its bugs. it'll be flyin by christmas. it'll be a bot by valentines. much love simple.wikipedia-- () 02:04, 1 December 2008 (UTC)
I refer to this edit by Gwib with the edit summary "ENWP template of the same name has it. Accepted by some as anatomically correct, so should have a link. Disagree? I thought so. Simple Talk?" which reinserts the article Gräfenberg spot into the and thereby claims that the concept is an anatomical fact. Per our article "a fact is something that is true or real". 
We provide three reliable references to support the fact that "Doctors who specialise in the anatomy of women say there is no anatomical evidence for the "spot"." The authors of the book who popularised the concept were psychologists, a nurse and a sex counsellor - not experts in the field of anatomy. 
As per our policy at : "many things most people believe are wrong - agreeing is not truth. Facts must be checked." Popular belief does not make something true. Some people believe in a Flat Earth. Others believe in Creationism. We have articles on the topic but we do not put forward the idea that they are true. I do not believe we should inaccurately promulgate the "modern gynecologic myth" by claiming something as anatomy when it is yet to be proven to the satisfaction of medical science. 
Note there is nor reason for inaccuracies at enwp to be reproduced here - we are not a mirror of enwp. -- () 21:40, 26 November 2008 (UTC)
Does anyone think that this Wiki degrades the English language? Aren't we assuming that English speakers aren't intelligent enough to cope with sophisticated language? Sorry if I'm right off, I'm new here. () 00:42, 27 November 2008 (UTC)
Happy Turkey Day to those Americans here!!!! Time to give thanks. Just remember...don't eat till ya puke..ROFLOL :D--    06:31, 27 November 2008 (UTC)
Well, this is my first edit in simple.wikipedia but, however, I saw ‘autoconfirmed’ in 'my settings'? why I don't need 10 edits in order to become an autoconfirmed user?-- () 07:53, 28 November 2008 (UTC)
Hey everyone, I think we should move Simple News from to . After all, it's part of wikipedia, and it will make it easier for users to find it. 16:17, 29 November 2008 (UTC)
Would anyone object to changing the edit counter in to this one? If no one objects, let's do that.   16:52, 29 November 2008 (UTC)
I was thinking today, that our tag needs updating to look more like en's. It needs to have a place to put the link the material came from. Can anyone do this? I think an admin has to.   14:28, 30 November 2008 (UTC)
Back to the original topic... :P - I've fixed the template so the third field should work. Go and play in a sandbox! - 17:35, 1 December 2008 (UTC)
I wanted to bring this up to the community before someone added it, but I noticed someone a long time ago removed the "other simple wikis" from . I think it should be reinstated because every other simple wiki has it and it makes navigation easier. What does everyone think?   14:46, 30 November 2008 (UTC)
Fixed. Space is no longer an issue. I had someone fix it so if its too large, you have the option to hide it. This will let us see edits faster for vandal fighting and you don't "have to" hide it. 17:30, 30 November 2008 (UTC)
I'm concerned lately that a number of new accounts have been repeatedly creating in mass, complex jargon without any basic, decriptive words whatsoever, meaningless stuff, spam, or just nothing at all. They usurp pages to put their complex irrelevant terms as in . They have been warned way too much by me, and they mass create 'throw-away' accounts and sometimes use IPs, which has been going on since Saturday. According to their IPs, they're in Korea, and possibly a university or a company judging by their edits. These users have varying degrees in understanding English, so I suspect they're meats. They also add summaries like "now ing" They've made mostly very obscure articles about car technologies and circuitry, like:
These accounts:
have all been doing this today. If anyone knows anything about this, why they are doing this, or anything about them happening now, just say it. I'm tired of QDing after them. I'll clear the contrib and user lists everyday so latest reports won't be clogged. And if you need to see past reports, go to - 06:45, 1 December 2008 (UTC)
I think now that they belong to Korea University and their teacher is 'Prof. Dr. Ki-Su LEE' and their website is www.korea.ac.kr. I'm trying to contact them about this, because one user I've kindly asked, has failed to respond and they are still ruining Wikipedia. If this continues, someone might have to pull in a few blocks. They are getting more suspicious by the moment and are now starting to use more IPs to possibly evade blocks.
They just don't learn how to edit properly and they think copying from En and other sites is the easy way out. - 06:07, 3 December 2008 (UTC)
Æåm Fætsøn removed this section with the edit summary "rm Multiple accounts... section, no activity but i'll bring it back if it pops up again." I've restored it, because I think we should stick to good Wiki-practices, which includes not deleting discussions except when archiving them. — Cheers, 14:26, 6 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello,
To simplify life, I have created . This page can be used to list current projects. That way, they will no lnoger be archived (with Simple talk). 
The current Thailand content expansion project is listed.
Can someome integrate the page into the rest of the schools gateway, please? 
-- () 10:50, 1 December 2008 (UTC)
Simple English wikipedia is not only for people learning English. I know it says that it is for children too but it seems like it is more geared toward foreigners from my reading of the summary. I think you should think again about your summary of this wiki. I am sure others will agree that most people learning English read in their own language as most of my foreign friends do. To say they cannot read in their own language is nonsense there are so many languages covered here bar one or two.(BTW I am an adult who understands English fine, but I have foreign friends so I have a fair knowledge of this subject.) () 09:44, 2 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello everyone. I thought I would let you all know that I will be less active from next week (8th December). I have a new job which will be taking up more of my time. Right now I work at a reception desk, so when there is no customers, I have no work to do, so I browse wikipedia. Unfortunately, my new job has a lot more responsibilty. I will be a housing officer, getting tenants to pay their rent and evicting those who don't. So I will not be able to browse here much after next week, as I will be out on home visits and in interviews. I will still try to be active at the weekends though, and will occasionally pop in when it is quiet too! Regards, 09:58, 2 December 2008 (UTC)
Lol, couldn't resist the title!
Anyway, just to update you all!
I've recently been inactive due to exams and personal reasons (and also something else some people know about that is wiki related) so DYK? has not been too active.
I am now back, and I completed an update yesterday. I've also now worked through all current noms, and added some to the next. I aim to get an update about every three days, although sometimes this may mean that I self-nom-self-approve or slightly relax the criteria (shout if you object).
I'm also looking for more people to help out, both with noms and the actual reviewing and updating! If you want to help, add your name to and if you're unsure of what to do, . I'm also going to refresh that list periodically so that only those active are listed.
Finally, a question: there has been talk of protecting everything that is Main Paged. As it is, DYK is run by mainly non-admins, and indeed I would struggle with doing it if it was protected ;). So, a) should it be protected (there has been no vandalism yet) and b) if it is, would anyone be opposed to be requesting sysop early for the sole purpose of DYK and Main Page updating? I would then re-apply when I felt I was ready for the rest ;).
So, that should bring you up to speed ;).
Thanks,
Has WP:RFD died? Cause I listed something for deletion two days ago and only 2 people have shared their thoughts. Why?--    00:33, 3 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello, I have created the page at - What do you think? I think it is good to have a place where they are all requested. Any comments? 10:03, 4 December 2008 (UTC)
I've added material to "". Comments on the changes and other updates are welcome. — Cheers, 14:51, 6 December 2008 (UTC)
Hi everyone. I think it would be a good idea to have the wikicup after all because I think it would make , and other things (wikiprojects, GA/VGA) more active. I "however" would like to participate, and was wondering if anyone would like to be a judge. If nobody wants to within 3 or 4 days, I'll be the judge (and won't participate, against my will!). I would be happy to write the rule and scoring system. Thanks, 18:21, 7 December 2008 (UTC)
I don't know how to make bots, obviously, but I need one created and we have to discuss this change (possibly). I noticed on A Tale of Two Cities that there were two wikiquote links. My first proposal is that we only use a wiktionary, wikibooks (or source; what have you) or wikiquote link if there is not one available on simplewq, simplewiktionary, etc. My next proposal is that a bot be created to update this, just like iw links. Thoughts? 23:45, 9 December 2008 (UTC)
Looking at the ShockingHawk unblock/mentor section, a major problem cropped up. "Did You Know?" is a part of our main page. This is a part of the public face we present to all of our readers and speaks heavily for us. This page should be something to be proud of and it is a page we should well protect. There in lies an issue. 
DYK hooks are included on the page. They should be properly inspected and verified well before being accepted.
Total time: 1 hour and 12 minutes
This hook went from nomination to being archived and queued up for inclusion on the Main Page in a total of 74 minutes. In less than an hour and a half, we are making changes to the main page with only the input of a single voice. There was practically no chance for anyone to have any opinion against this being made a part of our main page. 
The quality of any one hook is not the issue. This may be a great hook and it may deserve it place on the Main Page, but the fact it, only one person had a chance to decide if this was the case before this nomination got swept under the rug and archived. Ample time needs to be provided to give anyone reasonable time to voice their opinion. No one should be prevented from discussing a matter as important as our main page just because it was brought up and archived while they were running out to grab a bite to eat. Time frames need to be set. Two to three days is not forever when it comes to thing like this. We take a week to decide to delete a non-blatant page and yet it take an hour to decide to alter the main page and archive the "discussion".. I do not see this as a good thing. -- 08:32, 10 December 2008 (UTC)
Hi, some questions above ( Should we Project Space the Wikicup?
Should it be advertised, and if so, where? (Recent Changes, SiteNotice, Main Page, Watchlist has all been suggested)) Haven't been adressed. Could someone please comment, as there are only 3 weeks to go before it starts! Thanks. 12:15, 10 December 2008 (UTC)
Hi, again. I have another point I want to discuss. The scoring on the wikicup. This is what put an end to it last time. Do you think the scoring system is alright? Thanks, 15:49, 10 December 2008 (UTC)
Hi, I have just indefinitely blocked FastReverter as a sock of as per check on his IRC nick. A checkuser may check this and unblock if appropriate though, he has confessed on IRC that it is him...-- 22:01, 9 December 2008 (UTC)
I'll mentor Static under preconditions. I would like to see who will oppose or support this request, as its in good faith. I'll wait until we have a formal discussion or there is reasonable opposition to act. I believe you all know that if he steps out of line, he will be blocked again (and I have no problem doing it myself). I would like to give this one last shot. 22:21, 9 December 2008 (UTC)
Creol, you just contradicted yourself. In the last part, of the first sentence you say you can not ::see how any change has occurred yet go on to prove yourself wrong by saying he showed improvement with this new account. Well, I saw this improvement and I set aside all of my past dislikes of the Static and was became willing to give it one more go. If he turns out to be the same Static in a week I'll reblock indef and we do not even need to hold a discussion. It'll be wasting my time, and not the communities. And as Samekh notes, we will have to deal with the socks, or reform him. And this is what its about. 20:16, 10 December 2008 (UTC)
@Shapiros10, yes he may've done, but he's promised to change. It's a issue, as there are no "punishments" on WP, only preventative measures.  () 22:29, 9 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="145394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145394" title="Live – Friday the 13th">
Live – Friday the 13th

Live – Friday the 13th is a live album released on Sept. 20th, 2005. The album was released as a live CD/DVD album featuring all 12 original songs from Pop band Maroon 5's hit debut called "Songs About Jane". This album has been released with the "Copy Control" protection system in some regions. The CD has the length of 77:58. 
Maroon 5 performed in Santa Barbara, California on Friday, May 13th of 2005. 
The songs from the hit debut album by Maroon 5 called "Songs About Jane" were all featured performed live on this album. Two songs are performed called "Hello" by band "Oasis" (cover), and "Ain't No Sunshine" (cover).

</doc>
<doc id="145403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145403" title="Tropicana Field">
Tropicana Field

Tropicana Field is a domed baseball stadium that serves as the home field for the Tampa Bay Rays since 1998. The stadium was opened in 1990 in hopes of snatching a team away from another city. Two teams almost moved to Tampa to call Tropicana Field home; they were the Chicago White Sox and the San Francisco Giants. They stadium also served as the former home for the NHL team, Tampa Bay Lightning and the former home for the AFL's Tampa Bay Storm. Current Rays manager, Joe Maddon, has nicknamed the stadium "The Pit". While the fans nicknamed it "The Trop". The former name of the stadium was the Florida Suncoast Dome. It has also been called the Thunderdome.

</doc>
<doc id="145404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145404" title="Category:Tampa Bay Rays">
Category:Tampa Bay Rays

Items in this category are related to the Tampa Bay Rays.

</doc>
<doc id="145407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145407" title="Jin Mao Tower">
Jin Mao Tower

Jin Mao Tower is a skyscraper in Shanghai, China. It is tall. It has 88 floors. It was built between 1994 and 1999 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="145409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145409" title="Two International Finance Centre">
Two International Finance Centre

Two International Finance Centre is a skyscraper in Hong Kong. It is 415 meters (1362 feet) tall and has 88 floors. It was built in 2003 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

</doc>
<doc id="145413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145413" title="Gentoo penguin">
Gentoo penguin

The gentoo penguin ("Pygoscelis papua") is a species of penguin easily recognized by the white stripe across its head. They are the largest penguins of the stiff-tailed family, which also makes them the largest penguin except the two giant penguins, the emperor penguin and the king penguin.
The gentoo penguin is, on average, 5 kilograms in weight and 80 centimeters in height, but can range from 8.5 kg to 4.5 kg and 51 to 91 cm. They have very large male reproductive organs, and are also the fastest at swimming underwater among the penguins, reaching speeds of 36 kilometers per hour.
Gentoo penguins generally live on Antarctic islands, with their largest colony on the Falkland Islands. There are approximately 320,000 breeding pairs of gentoo penguins.
These penguins nest on the ground, making nests of stones, sticks, grass, feathers, and various other materials. They usually lay two eggs by mid-October, which hatch in about 34 days, and put equal care into caring for either chick. Young chicks remain in the nest for 3 to 4 weeks until their second down feathers grow in, during which their parents hunt for food in order to feed them. Afterward, they leave the nest but remain in the colony in groups of chicks, called creches that free their parents to hunt for food for them.
Gentoo penguin pairs often stay together for a long period of time.
Gentoo penguins usually eat crustaceans, such as krill, but genrally eat what is easiest to get. At sea, they may be under attack from sea lions, leopard seals, and orcas. While on land they have no natural predators, but skua, gulls, and other birds of prey have been known to attack and eat young chicks and eggs.

</doc>
<doc id="145426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145426" title="Megabat">
Megabat

Megabats are also called Old World fruit bats. They are the suborder Megachiroptera, family Pteropodidae of the order Chiroptera (bats).
These fruit bats are flying mammals that live in dense forests in Africa, Europe, Australia, and Asia. There are about 166 species of fruit bats. Fruit bats are sometimes known as flying foxes. These bats live in huge colonies, known as "camps." These nocturnal (most active at night) animals rest during the day while hanging upside down from their feet. 
As fruit bats fly from plant to plant getting food, they also pollinate the plants they visit. In addition, they disperse the plants' seeds as they eat. Many plants, including some avocados, dates, mangos, and peaches, are dependent on these bats for either pollination or seed dispersal.
Fruit bats mostly eat fruit juice and flower nectar. They chew the fruit, then spit out the seeds, peel, and pulp. Fruit bats, like other Megachiropteran bats, use the sense of smell to find their food, fruit and/or nectar. Although they have large eyes and can see well, fruit bats do not use sight as their primary sense. Fruit bats eat other things too.
Some megabats are vectors of dangerous diseases.
The first recorded human outbreak of Ebola virus was in 1976, but the source of the virus is still unknown. Recent tests have shown that some species of fruit bats collected during Ebola outbreaks show the bats have the virus, but do not show any signs of it. Further studies also show that Ebola can reproduce in fruit bats and other bats in the "Tadarida" genus. This could mean that the bats are the source of the virus. The Marburg virus, which is related to Ebola, has also been found in fruit bats in Uganda.
Another explanation is that fruit bats could be an intermediate host because of the uncertainty that fruit bats are the index case for Ebola. It is also important to note that certain species of fruit bats in Africa are immune to the Ebola virus and that their DNA or RNA are similar to the Zaire Ebola virus. This could explain the spread to humans since people in that region tend to eat fruit bats.

</doc>
<doc id="145435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145435" title="Flag of Florida">
Flag of Florida

The Flag of Florida is a white flag with the Seal of Florida centered on it. Behind the Seal, it has a red saltire, which resembles the Spanish Cross of Burgundy flag used in Florida since the early 1500s. The current flag was adopted in 1900, however the State Seal in the center of the flag was updated in 1985 to reflect the proper historical dress of a Seminole maiden, in the previous seal she was dressed in buckskin with a feathered headband.

</doc>
<doc id="145437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145437" title="Flag of Libya">
Flag of Libya

The Flag of Libya has three horizontal stripes of red, black, and green, with a white crescent and star in the center of the black stripe. It has been the official flag of Libya since 3 August 2011. The flag is the same as the flag of the earlier Kingdom of Libya, used from 1951 to 1969.
The previous flag of Libya is still used by supporters of Muammar al-Gaddafi. It was just a plain field of green. It was unique for being the only national flag in the world with just one color and no design, emblems, coat of arms, or any other details. It was adopted on 11 November 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="145458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145458" title="Category:Geography of the United States by state">
Category:Geography of the United States by state


</doc>
<doc id="145460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145460" title="Chambar">
Chambar

Chambar, or Chamber, is a town of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is the capital Chamber Taluka (a subdivision of the district). The town itself is subdivided into two Union Councils. 

</doc>
<doc id="145464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145464" title="2008 Formula One season">
2008 Formula One season

The 2008 Formula One season was the 59th FIA Formula One World Championship season. It began on March 16 and was over on November 2 after eighteen races. Lewis Hamilton became the Drivers' World Champion while Scuderia Ferrari Marlboro won the Constructors' title.
The following teams and drivers competed in the 2008 FIA Formula One World Championship:
Changed teams
Entered F1
Exited F1
The FIA World Council approved the 2008 schedule on 24 October 2007. Singapore was Formula One's first ever night race.
 Drivers did not finish the Grand Prix, but were classified as they completed over 90% of the race distance.
A scandal developed that became known as "Crashgate" in the media, during the 2009 season around the time of the Belgium Grand Prix. Claims were made by former Renault driver Nelson Piquet Jr. about his crash in the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix. This led to charges of race-fixing against Renault. Team boss Flavio Briatore and engineering director Pat Symonds left Renault.

</doc>
<doc id="145476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145476" title="Category:1073 births">
Category:1073 births


</doc>
<doc id="145488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145488" title="Category:1067 deaths">
Category:1067 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="145489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145489" title="Category:1796 births">
Category:1796 births


</doc>
<doc id="145490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145490" title="Category:18th century songs">
Category:18th century songs


</doc>
<doc id="145492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145492" title="Category:1789 births">
Category:1789 births


</doc>
<doc id="145493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145493" title="Category:625 BC establishments">
Category:625 BC establishments


</doc>
<doc id="145494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145494" title="Category:625 BC">
Category:625 BC


</doc>
<doc id="145495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145495" title="Category:7th century BC establishments">
Category:7th century BC establishments


</doc>
<doc id="145496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145496" title="Category:570 births">
Category:570 births


</doc>
<doc id="145497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145497" title="Category:570">
Category:570


</doc>
<doc id="145498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145498" title="Category:1777 deaths">
Category:1777 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="145502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145502" title="New York Film Critics Circle Awards">
New York Film Critics Circle Awards

New York Film Critics Circle Awards are awards given every year for excellence in cinema worldwide. They are given by an organization of movie critics from New York City-based publications. It is considered one of the most important movie critics awards in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="145507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145507" title="Duncan II of Scotland">
Duncan II of Scotland

Donnchad mac Maíl Coluim (Modern Gaelic: "Donnchadh mac Mhaoil Chaluim") renamed as Duncan II (before c. 1060 – 12 November 1094) was king of Scots. He was son of Malcolm III (Máel Coluim mac Donnchada) and his first wife Ingibiorg Finnsdottir, widow of Thorfinn Sigurdsson.

</doc>
<doc id="145508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145508" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Concerts">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Concerts

The article concert covers this subject. "Concert" is the correct title (the singular) and links to wiki articles "concert" in other languages. "Concerts" can be a redirect to "concert". () 20:21, 11 December 2008 (UTC)
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
Already Redirected prior to discussion opening -- 20:24, 11 December 2008 (UTC)
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Thursday, 18 December 2008 at 8:21 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="145510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145510" title="Messolonghi">
Messolonghi

Messolonghi is a Greek city. It is the capital of the Aitoloakarnania prefecture. It is build on the bank of a lagoon. Its population is 14,209 inhabitants. Messolonghi is known because of the Greek War of Independence. During that time the siege of Messolonghi took place. During the siege the residents of Messolonghi fought with the Turks and the majority of them were killed there. During the siege of Messolonghi Lord Byron died, in 1824.

</doc>
<doc id="145515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145515" title="Kalamata">
Kalamata

Kalamata is a Greek city. It is in the southwest of the Peloponnese peninsula. 54,065 people live there. Kalamata it is built at the foot of Taygetos mountain. It is also a coastal city and it has a big beach, in front of the city.
Kalamata became the first city which was liberated in the Greek War of Independence in 1821. Kalamata was liberated on 21 March 1821. Kalamata is also known because of the big earthquake in 1986. At that time, Kalamata had a lot of disasters. 

</doc>
<doc id="145518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145518" title="Matt Joyce">
Matt Joyce

Matthew R. Joyce (born August 3, 1984) is an outfielder for the Tampa Bay Rays. He has also played for the Detroit Tigers.
In 2011, Joyce was picked to play in the Major League Baseball All-Star Game.

</doc>
<doc id="145524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145524" title="Foundation">
Foundation

Foundation might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="145536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145536" title="CITIC Plaza">
CITIC Plaza

CITIC Plaza is a skyscraper in Guangzhou, China. It is 391 meters (1283 feet) tall and has 80 floors. It was built in 1997 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="145537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145537" title="Shun Hing Square">
Shun Hing Square

Shun Hing Square is a skyscraper in Shenzhen, China. It is 384 meters (1260 feet) tall and has 69 floors. It was built in 1996 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="145540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145540" title="Chase Tower (Indianapolis)">
Chase Tower (Indianapolis)

Chase Tower is a skyscraper in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It is 601 meters (2,004 feet) tall and has 50 floors. It was built in 1990 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="145541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145541" title="Harald V of Norway">
Harald V of Norway

Harald V (born 21 February 1937) is the king of Norway. His father was Olav V of Norway. He became king in 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="145543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145543" title="Gray whale">
Gray whale

The gray whale ("Eschrichtius robustus") is a baleen whale (a filter feeder) that has a layer of blubber up to 10 inches (25 cm) thick. Because a mother gray whale would defend her calf so fiercely it would actually attack whalers and overturn their boats, whalers often called the gray whale a devilfish. 
The gray whale migrates from cold waters to the tropics each year in pods. Gray whales are very agile swimmers. They can dive for up to 30 minutes and go 500 feet (155 m) deep. Gray whales make grunts, clicks, and whistling sounds which may be used to communicate with other gray whales.
This giant cetacean eats small fish, crustaceans, squid, and other tiny organisms that it finds on the sea floor. It sieves its food through its comb-like plates of baleen.
Compared to most baleen whales, gray whales are rather small, growing to be only about 45 feet long. They are easy to see with their gray color, which is actually more charcoal black than it is gray. Gray whales have lots of barnacles and lice on their skin. However, scientists say the lice and barnacles do not harm the whale, and it is possible they may actually "help" the whale by feeding off of dead skin, which the whale needs to get rid of.
Whales prefer one fin over the other, just like humans are right-handed or left-handed. It is possible to see whether a gray whale is left-fineed or right-finned. The fin that has least barnacles is the fin it uses most. This is because the whale likes to dive down to the ocean floor to up huge amounts of sand from the bottom, filtering out small prey animals that live in it. When the whale does this, many of the barnacles on the side that rubbed along the bottom are scraped off. So, whichever side has fewest barnacles is the side the whale prefers to use when it digs up sand.
Gray whales make a really long migration from the Arctic Ocean (northwest of Alaska) to the coast of Mexico, and back each year. They travel about 20,000 km (~12,500 miles) each year, staying near the coast. They feed in the cold Arctic waters and calve and mate in the warm, protected tropical lagoons of the Pacific Ocean off Mexico.

</doc>
<doc id="145544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145544" title="Chase Tower (Chicago)">
Chase Tower (Chicago)

Chase Tower is a skyscraper in Chicago, United States. It is 259 meters (850 feet) tall and has 60 floors. It was built in 1969 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

</doc>
<doc id="145546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145546" title="Le Père Fouettard">
Le Père Fouettard

Le Père Fouettard (French for "The whipping Father") was a character who went with Saint Nicholas in his rounds at Christmas giving the naughty children the whip while St. Nick gives gifts to the well behaved. 
He wore a long, dirty, dark colored robe and had a beard that was poorly groomed.
He is known mainly in the Eastern regions of France. In Alsace, Le Père Fouettard is synonymous with the bogeyman.

</doc>
<doc id="145551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145551" title="Dryococelus australis">
Dryococelus australis

The Lord Howe Island stick insect ("Dryococelus australis"), is a phasmid which is sometimes called a land lobster. It was thought to have become extinct in 1930, but more were found in 2001. It no longer lives on Lord Howe Island which was its main habitat. It is now only found on the small rock island called Ball's Pyramid. With less than 30 of the stick insects left alive in the wild, it has been called "the rarest insect in the world". Melbourne Zoo has been able to breed the stick insects with more than 9,000 hatched. It is hoped that the insects will be released back on Lord Howe Island in the future.

</doc>
<doc id="145556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145556" title="Basking shark">
Basking shark

The Basking shark ("Cetorhinus maximus") is a huge filter-feeding shark, which can grow up to the length of 40 feet (12 metres). It is the second largest shark in the world (after the Whale shark). The Basking shark is also called the Sunfish, the Bone shark, the Elephant shark, the Sailfish shark, and the Big mouth shark.
The Basking shark is one of the most recognizable species of all sharks. Its large size and extended gill slits which nearly encircle the head and caudal fin together, helps distinguish it from all other species. It has a snout which is in the shape of a cone, and it has many large gill rakers made for filter feeding. Its enormous mouth extends past the small eyes and contains many small, hooked teeth. The Basking shark has a very large liver that makes up to 25% of its body weight. The liver is high in squalene, a low-density hydrocarbon that helps the shark float and not sink.
The dorsal surface of the Basking shark is mainly a greyish-brown colour, but can range from dark grey to almost black. The underside is usually the same colour, but is often paler and more whiter.
The Basking shark has many hundreds of tiny teeth. Those teeth which are in the center of the jaws are low and triangular while those on the sides are more cone-shaped and slightly recurved. There is mainly a wide space on the center of the upper jaw which only has scattered teeth. 
The Basking shark is the second largest shark in the world, only to be behind the Whale shark. The Basking shark can reach lengths of up to 40 feet (12 metres), but the average adult length is 22–29 feet (6.6-8.7 m). The size at birth is believed to be between 5–6 feet (1.5-1.8 metres). The Basking shark is an extremely slow-growing species and may grow to 16–20 feet (4.8–6 metres) before becoming mature.
The Basking shark is a coastal-pelagic species, found throughout the world's arctic and temperate waters. In the western Atlantic, it ranges from Newfoundland to Florida, and southern Brazil to Argentina. In the eastern Atlantic it ranges from Iceland and Norway to Senegal, including the parts of the Mediterranean. In the western Pacific, it is found off Japan, China and the Koreas as well as western and southern Australia and the coastlines of New Zealand. In the eastern Pacific, it is found from the Gulf of Alaska to the Gulf of California and from Ecuador to Chile.
Basking sharks are usually found travelling in pairs or groups of up to 100 or more, but are sometimes seen travelling alone. It is not fully understood why they have such a different behaviour to other shark species, as they seem to travel alone and in groups. They are highly migrational, and in the winter months they will be harder to find as they go to the deeper parts of the water to find food.
When they are seen swimming in circles, it is believed that this is to get the attention of females for mating. They may spend hours performing this, just in order to get noticed. They are usually very patient when it comes to attracting a mate.
Along with the Whale shark and the Megamouth shark, the Basking shark is one of three species of large, filter-feeding sharks. However, the Basking shark is the only one that relies on the flow of water through its pharynx by swimming. The Basking shark is usually seen swimming with its mouth wide open, taking in a continuous flow of water. Food is strained from the water by gill rakers in the gill slits. The Basking shark's gill rakers can strain up to 2000 tons of water per hour. These sharks feed along areas that contain high densities of large zooplankton (i.e., small crustaceans, invertebrate larvae, and fish eggs and larvae). There is a theory that the Basking shark feeds on the surface when plankton is common, then sheds its gill rakers and hibernates in deeper water during winter. Also, it has been suggested that the Basking shark turns to benthic (near bottom) feeding when it loses its gill rakers. It is not known how often it sheds these gill rakers or how quickly they are replaced.
Basking sharks are ovoviviparous, meaning that the young embryos develop in a yolk sac inside of the female, but they aren’t attached to a placental connection. It is believed that the females can delay gestation so that they may remain pregnant from 1 to 3 years. Mating occurs in the early summer and the females often move to very shallow water when ready for the young to be born. She may have up to 6 pups that are up to 6 feet long. The age of maturity is from 6 to 13 years. Basking sharks start mating when they are around 15 to 20 feet long.
Basking sharks are highly migratory. Off the Atlantic coast of North America, it appears in the southern part of its range (North Carolina to New York) in the spring, shifts northward (New England and Canada) in the summer, and disappears in autumn and winter. Off the southwest coast of the United Kingdom, in the northeast Atlantic, the Basking shark feeds at the surface of coastal waters during the summer. These sharks are absent from November to March, suggesting a migration beyond the continental shelf during the winter months. This is explained by the high amount of zooplankton (the main food of the Basking shark) that exists in these waters during late spring and early summer. During migration, Basking sharks form groups depending on size and gender.
Many people have witnessed individual Basking sharks leaping from the water. This behaviour is not fully understood, but some believe that the shark may be trying to get rid of parasites or commensals such as remoras and sea lampreys, which are often seen attached to the skin of the Basking shark. The lamprey cannot cut through the denticle-armored skin, but they may be enough of an irritant to cause a reaction like jumping or rubbing against an object to get rid of them. The cookiecutter shark has also been known to attack Basking sharks by using its suction cup-like lips and muscular pharynx to drill off pieces of flesh on the outside of the shark.
The Basking shark has been hunted for its large liver, which has been sold in Japan, and has been burned and used in lamps by fishermen in the U.K, whilst the oil has been used in the manufacture of cosmetics. Due to the long amount of time it takes to mature, and the slow reproductive rate, the Basking shark is vulnerable to over-fishing, and targeted populations are very slow to recover from targeted fisheries. Today the biggest threat comes from the demand for the fins for shark fin soup, and from accidental by-catches in the fishing industries. Although it is difficult to tell exactly, there has been a report that the population of Basking sharks has decreased by 80% since 1950.

</doc>
<doc id="145565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145565" title="Category:Norwegian athletes">
Category:Norwegian athletes


</doc>
<doc id="145566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145566" title="Category:Sports in Norway">
Category:Sports in Norway


</doc>
<doc id="145567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145567" title="Category:Norwegian companies">
Category:Norwegian companies


</doc>
<doc id="145571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145571" title="Chamber Taluka">
Chamber Taluka

Chamber Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Chambar is the capital. 

</doc>
<doc id="145576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145576" title="Fortress">
Fortress

A fortress is a building designed to be defended, which means it was very hard for enemies to get inside. Fortification kept the people inside safe. There is little difference between a fortress and a castle. Fortresses normally have thick stone walls, thicker but less tall than in castles so artillery cannot break them. There were very small windows, without glass, so that soldiers inside could fire out through them. As time passed, the weapons they used changed, from bow and arrow, crossbow, gun or cannon. Soldiers outside had great difficulty firing into such small windows. The people defending the fortress were also able to drop things like rocks and boiling oil on the heads of those below. Successful attacks were usually sieges. 
Fortresses were not designed for comfort. They were dark and often damp. The Tower of London is an example of a fortress.

</doc>
<doc id="145577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145577" title="Malay alphabet">
Malay alphabet

The modern Malay alphabet is based on the Latin alphabet. It is used to write Malay.
It contains the same 26 letters as the English language alphabet, with the exception of q, v, and x, for a total of 23 letters:
Diphthongs
Consonant combinations
Actual written examples of the Malay language:
Good day 
Apa khabar
What is your name? 
Siapa nama anda?
Do you speak Malay? 
Bolehkah anda bercakap Bahasa Melayu?

</doc>
<doc id="145594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145594" title="Central Plaza">
Central Plaza

Central Plaza is a skyscraper in Hong Kong. It is 374 meters (1227 feet) tall and has 78 floors. It was built in 1992 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

</doc>
<doc id="145599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145599" title="Fin whale">
Fin whale

The fin whale ("Balaenoptera physalus") is a huge baleen whale. It is the second largest animal on Earth (the blue whale is the biggest). This whale is sometimes called the "greyhound of the sea" because of its fast swimming speed; it can swim up to 23 mph (37 km/hr) in short bursts. The fin whale is also called the finback, finner, razorback, common rorqual, and herring whale.
The fin whale is a streamlined whale that is found worldwide; it is most common in the North Atlantic. There are three separate populations of fin whales, one in the North Pacific, one in the North Atlantic, and one in the Southern Hemisphere; they do not interbreed. Many groups of fin whales migrate between feeding grounds and breeding grounds. This whale usually swims in pods of 3-7 whales but larger groups (up to 300 animals) may form at rich feeding grounds.
Fin whales are filter feeders that eat plankton (tiny crustaceans like krill and copepods) and small fish from the water. They have very fine grey-black baleen that traps very small particles of food. Each side of the upper jaw has 270-470 baleen plates.

</doc>
<doc id="145609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145609" title="James Skinner (soldier)">
James Skinner (soldier)

James Skinner CB (1778 – December 4, 1841) was an Anglo-Indian military adventurer in India.
Skinner was born in India, son of Lieutenant-Colonel Hercules Skinner and a Rajput lady. Because of his Indian heritage, Skinner was unable to serve as an officer in the East India Company army and, at the age of eighteen, he entered the Mahratta army under Benoît de Boigne, where he soon showed military talent. He remained in the same service under Pierre Cuillier-Perron until 1803, when, on the outbreak of the second Anglo-Maratha War all Anglo-Indians were dismissed from Mahratta service.

</doc>
<doc id="145619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145619" title="Nauplion">
Nauplion

Nauplion is a Greek city. It is in the Argolida's prefecture, in the east of Peloponnese peninsula. Near Nauplio is the historical city of Argos. Nauplio was the first capital of Greece. Nauplio is a coastal city. It has three castles. The most famous are the Palamidi castle, and Bourtzi castle which is on the islet in front of the port. The population of Nauplion is 13,124 inhabitants. 
Nauplion was the second capital of Greece. In 1834 the king Otto carried the capital to Athens. Nauplion was one of the first cities which were liberated during Greek War of Independence.
Nauplion has many sites of interest. The most interest sites are its three castle. Its old neighborhoods are also very beautiful places for visit. In Nauplion there are many old beautiful buildings from previous century. 

</doc>
<doc id="145620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145620" title="Lincoln, Alabama">
Lincoln, Alabama

Lincoln is a city in Talladega County, Alabama, United States. At the 2012 census the population was 6,337.

</doc>
<doc id="145621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145621" title="Linden, Alabama">
Linden, Alabama

Linden is a city in and the county seat of Marengo County, Alabama, United States. The population was 2,424 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="145622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145622" title="Lineville, Alabama">
Lineville, Alabama

Lineville is a city in Clay County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,401.

</doc>
<doc id="145623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145623" title="Lipscomb, Alabama">
Lipscomb, Alabama

Lipscomb is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,458.

</doc>
<doc id="145624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145624" title="Livingston, Alabama">
Livingston, Alabama

Livingston is a city in Sumter County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 3,297. The city is the county seat of Sumter County.

</doc>
<doc id="145625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145625" title="Luverne, Alabama">
Luverne, Alabama

Luverne is a city in Crenshaw County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,635. The city is the county seat of Crenshaw County.

</doc>
<doc id="145627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145627" title="Category:St. Petersburg, Florida">
Category:St. Petersburg, Florida

Things in this category are related to St. Petersburg, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="145630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145630" title="Iridaceae">
Iridaceae

Iridaceae are perennial herbs from rhizomes, bulbs or corms comprising about 80 genera and 1,500 species. The leaves are distichous and have a sheathing, equitant base and a generally ensiform or linear blade with parallel venation. The flowers are bisexual, usually showy, and are actinomorphic or zygomorphic.
Some genera:

</doc>
<doc id="145632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145632" title="Tampa Bay Area">
Tampa Bay Area

The Tampa Bay Area is an area in West Central Florida that includes Tampa and St. Pete. Among notable residents is John Cena, a WWE pro wrestler and former 3-time WWE Champion and reigning World Heavyweight Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="145634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145634" title="Live at Wembley '86">
Live at Wembley '86

Live at Wembley '86 is a set of two discs recorded by English rock band Queen.
It was recorded live on Saturday July 12, 1986 during the "Magic Tour" at Wembley Stadium in London, England and was released on May 26, 1992.
A DVD was released in June 2003. The album was re-sold in a new CD with bonus tracks in August 2003 in the United States as Live at Wembley Stadium after the DVD.

</doc>
<doc id="145635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145635" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2008/December/Done">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2008/December/Done

Comment I have experience on yourwiki. Do you have rollback/global rollback on yourwiki? If it is global rollback fair enough if it is ordinary rollback on a wiki depends which one it is. And if you have rollback then I should apply for it. () 21:14, 9 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="145637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145637" title="Trams in Melbourne">
Trams in Melbourne

Melbourne, Australia had trams invented in 1885 and now the trams are the largest tram network in the world, consisting of 152 miles of tracks, 500 trams, 28 routes, and 1,813 tram stops. The trams are powered using 600V DC delivered by overhead wires and run on standard gauge track. Currently operated by a private company, Yarra Trams under contract from the Victorian Government, the owner of the network. Melbourne's trams give a lot to the city's distinctive character and are loved by the people of Melbourne.
In 2007, a total of 156.4 million passengers took rides on Melbourne’s trams.

</doc>
<doc id="145642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145642" title="Lincoln City F.C.">
Lincoln City F.C.

Lincoln City F.C. is an English football team currently playing in Football League Two (the fourth tier of the English football league system).
The team play at the 10,127 capacity Sincil Bank in Lincoln, Lincolnshire, and are nicknamed the Imps after the legend of the Lincoln Imp. More recently, they have also been known as the Red Imps. Traditionally they play in red and white striped shirts with black shorts and red and white socks.

</doc>
<doc id="145643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145643" title="Neamţ County">
Neamţ County

Neamţ () is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the historic region of Moldavia, with the county seat at Piatra Neamţ.
In 2002, it had a population of 557,000 and a population density of 99/km².

</doc>
<doc id="145647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145647" title="Retezat Mountains">
Retezat Mountains

The Retezat Mountains (, ) are one of the highest massifs in Romania. They are part of the Southern Carpathians. The highest peak is Peleaga (Vârful Peleaga), at an altitude of . Other important peaks are Păpuşa (Varful Păpuşa) and Retezat Peak (Vârful Retezat).
The Retezat Mountains have many glacial lakes. The largest glacial lake in Romania, Bucura Lake (lacul Bucura) is in these mountains. It covers and is located at an altitude of metres. The area also contains the Retezat National Park, Romania's first national park.

</doc>
<doc id="145648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145648" title="Swainsona formosa">
Swainsona formosa

Swainsona formosa, commonly called "Sturt's Desert Pea", is the floral emblem of South Australia It was named after explorer Charles Sturt.
This plant is a part of the pea family, Fabaceae. It is only found in Australia. It grows in the drier areas of the country except in Victoria. Explorer William Dampier was the first European to collect a sample of the plant. He found it growing in what is now called the Dampier Archipelago in Western Australia in 1699. 

</doc>
<doc id="145649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145649" title="Category:Plants of Australia">
Category:Plants of Australia

This category is for plants that are native to Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="145651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145651" title="Category:Alternative music">
Category:Alternative music

Articles relating to alternative rock and other forms of alternative music. Individual bands or artists should not be listed here. Most of what is listed here should be music genres that are subgenres of alternative music.

</doc>
<doc id="145655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145655" title="Category:Exploration of Australia">
Category:Exploration of Australia

This category is for the people and the expeditions that they took to explore Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="145657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145657" title="Gossypium sturtianum">
Gossypium sturtianum

"Gossypium sturtianum", commonly called "Sturt's Desert Rose", is the floral emblem of the Northern Territory. It was named after explorer Charles Sturt who found the plant in creeks near the site of Broken Hill, New South Wales in 1844. He collected the seeds and brought them back for Robert Brown (1773-1858), a Scottish botanist, to study.
A stylized drawing of the flower is used on the Northern Territory's flag.

</doc>
<doc id="145663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145663" title="Category:Animals of Australia">
Category:Animals of Australia

This category is for animals that come from Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="145665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145665" title="Category:Birds of Australia">
Category:Birds of Australia

This category is for birds that come from Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="145666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145666" title="Category:Sports in Tampa, Florida">
Category:Sports in Tampa, Florida


</doc>
<doc id="145667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145667" title="Category:Sports in Florida">
Category:Sports in Florida


</doc>
<doc id="145668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145668" title="Category:Sports in Miami, Florida">
Category:Sports in Miami, Florida


</doc>
<doc id="145669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145669" title="University of San Francisco">
University of San Francisco

The University of San Francisco, is a private Jesuit university founded in 1855 in San Francisco, California, and is the oldest university in San Francisco.

</doc>
<doc id="145680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145680" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Generic">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/Templates/Generic


</doc>
<doc id="145687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145687" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Bluegoblin7/Reserve/QandA-Gwib">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Bluegoblin7/Reserve/QandA-Gwib

This is an "emergency" QandA so that the December 2008 issue isn't without one... sorry those in the queue (i'll forfeit my place if needed!) but Gwib offered to be interviewed and the section is sort of the main part of Simple News at the moment ;)
Thanks,
This month, is in the spotlight!

</doc>
<doc id="145692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145692" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Bluegoblin7/Reserve">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Bluegoblin7/Reserve

This is the reserve section. Reserve or emergency articles/features will be kept below.

</doc>
<doc id="145696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145696" title="Hurricane Nora (1997)">
Hurricane Nora (1997)

Hurricane Nora was the first hurricane to cause a significant danger to the Continental United States since Kathleen in 1976. 
Part of a tropical wave that contributed to the formation of Hurricane Erika in the Atlantic moved into the Pacific and organized into Tropical Depression 16-E on September 16 and Tropical Storm Nora that same day. Nora became a hurricane in a favourable environment September 18 while moving northwest. Its motion then stalled over an upwelling of cooler water that weakened it.
On September 20, Nora again started moving. It reached its peak intensity of 115 knots and 950 mb On September 21 and 22 it moved over the wake of Hurricane Linda. This weakened the storm pack down to a Category 1.
During this time, a trough developed that turned Nora to the northeast. This carried Nora over a favourable environment and towards Baja California. After restrengthening slightly, Nora made landfall as a Category 1 hurricane near Punta Eugenia and again south of San Fernando, both times as a hurricane.
Nora stayed a tropical storm as it moved into the United States. Yuma reported sustained gale-force winds. Rains were heavy, sometimes exceeding the "annual" rainfall for the area. Nora weakened to a depression while over California, and it dissipated September 26.
Nora killed two people in Mexico. One was killed by a downed power line in Mexicali, and the other was a scuba diving in underwater currents. No one in the United States was directly killed by Nora. However, the California Highway Patrol attributed several traffic accident deaths to the weather.
There was extensive damage to areas hit by Nora. Waves ruined dozens of homes. Roughly 350 to 400 people were left homeless in San Felipe, and winds uprooted trees and peeled roofs from homes in Puerto Peñasco.
In the United States, thousands were left without power in California and Arizona, and 16 telephone poles were downed in Seeley. Streets flooded in San Diego, Indio, El Centro, and Palm Springs. A remnant circulation continued aloft, and damaged trees and three homes in Utah. Total damages were "several hundred million dollars", as well as 40 million dollars to lemon trees.
Nora crossed an area of abnormally warm water near the west coast of the Baja California Peninsula. It restrengthened slightly before making its first landfall near Bahía Tortugas, Baja California Sur. When Nora was inland, the area of the storm located in the Gulf of California began to reintensify. Hurricane Nora then made a second landfall about 60 miles (95 km) south-southeast of San Fernando, Baja California.
At landfall, a trough was accelerating Nora northwards, causing it to reach a forward speed of 30 mph (50 km/h). Late on September 25 (UTC), still a tropical storm, it entered the continental United States at the California-Arizona state line. Nora began to weaken rapidly, and was downgraded to a tropical depression three hours later, while located between Blythe and Needles, California. Nora reached Arizona while still tropical, becoming the third known system to do so. Nora degenerated over land, and the low-level center moved towards the north-northeast. A remnant circulation aloft persisted, however, and was likely responsible for a period of near hurricane-force winds observed at the NWS Cedar City, Utah Doppler weather radar. The remnants gradually became more diffuse over the following two days while moving generally northeastward, through portions of Utah, Colorado, Idaho and Wyoming.
On September 24, Arizona Governor Jane Dee Hull activated an emergency response center to prepare the state's response to the flash flooding the storm would cause on the dry desert floor, and Yuma residents began to fill approximately 55,000 sandbags to contain the possible flooding. Hull also activated the state's National Guard, and sent drinking water and electric generators to Yuma. Farther inland, the National Weather Service issued flash flood watches for western Arizona, southeastern California, southwestern Colorado, southern Nevada and southern Utah on September 26.
In the United States, there were no direct deaths blamed on the hurricane. However, the California Highway Patrol attributed three or four traffic fatalities in southern California to the weather.
Damage totals in the United States are not fully known, although media summaries of Nora included a loss to agriculture preliminarily estimated at several hundred million dollars, and at least one study places the figure at $150–200 million (1997 USD). It is estimated that $30–40 million (1997 USD) in damage to lemon trees occurred. Although Nora was significantly weakened, near hurricane-force winds were observed at the Dixie National Forest in southwestern Utah, where strong gusts sheared off the tops of large trees.
The Yuma radar indicated a small area of rainfall totals along the northern Gulf of California coast of Baja California. In the United States, the largest total rainfall was recorded at the Harquahala Mountains in Arizona, where of rainfall were recorded as a result of Nora, causing flash floods in western Arizona.
Near Phoenix, rainfall from the storm caused the Narrows Dam, a small earthen dam, to fail. In other locations in Arizona, California, Nevada, and Utah, more than occurred in a few localized areas, sometimes with precipitation comparable to the entire local yearly average rainfall. Flooding was also reported in Somerton, San Diego, El Centro, Palm Springs and Indio, while 12,000 people lost power in Yuma, as well as Los Angeles and southwestern Utah.
Despite the damage, the World Meteorological Organization did not retire the name "Nora" during its meeting in the spring of 1998. As a result, it was used in the 2003 Pacific hurricane season and is on the list of names to be used in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="145699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145699" title="Mureş County">
Mureş County

Mureş (, ) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the historical region of Transylvania. The capital of Mureş County is Târgu Mureş.
Mureş County has an area of 6,714 km².
In 2002, about 582,000 people lived in Mureş County.
Mureş County has 4 municipalities, 7 towns and 91 communes.

</doc>
<doc id="145710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145710" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/2009 Nations">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/2009 Nations

<div style="background:#7676f4; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#000099; padding-left:1em; padding-right:0.5em; padding-bottom:0.5em;">

</doc>
<doc id="145724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145724" title="Hurricane Dog (1950)">
Hurricane Dog (1950)

Hurricane Dog was the strongest hurricane in the 1950 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the fourth named storm of the season. Dog began on August 30 to the east of Antigua. After passing through the northern Lesser Antilles, the storm turned to the north and became a Category 5 hurricane. Dog reached its highest strength of 185 mph (295 km/h) winds over the ocean. The hurricane weakened and passed within 200 miles (320 km) of Cape Cod before becoming extratropical on September 12.
Hurricane Dog caused high damage to the Leeward Islands, and was said to be the strongest hurricane on record in Antigua. Many buildings were destroyed or damaged on the island. In the United States, the hurricane caused damage along the coast. It damaged several boats and caused 11 people to drown. Strong winds caused large power outages across southeastern New England. Damage along Hurricane Dog's track totaled to about $3 million (1950 USD, $25.7 million 2007 USD).

</doc>
<doc id="145731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145731" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/19-01-09">
Wikipedia:Simple News/19-01-09


</doc>
<doc id="145734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145734" title="Wikipedia:WikiCup/2009/Nations/Sandbox">
Wikipedia:WikiCup/2009/Nations/Sandbox

England
Final score: 132
Italy
Final score: 124
Austria
Final score: 98
Germany
Final score: 120

</doc>
<doc id="145739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145739" title="Kingdom of Württemberg">
Kingdom of Württemberg

Württemberg [], formerly known as Wirtemberg, is an area and a former state in southwestern Germany, including parts of the regions Swabia and Franconia. It was originally a Duchy but was raised to a Kingdom in 1806. 

</doc>
<doc id="145745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145745" title="Tiraspol">
Tiraspol

Tiraspol (Russian: Тирасполь and Ukrainian: Тирасполь) is the second biggest city of Moldova and the capital city of Transnistria.

</doc>
<doc id="145746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145746" title="Sukhumi">
Sukhumi

Sukhumi or Sokhumi () is a city in Georgia. It is the capital city of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia. 
Sokhumi was a multi-ethnic city. The people were Georgians, Abkhazians (Apsuans), Russians, Armenians and Greeks during Soviet Rule. During the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict Georgians in Abkhazia were forced to leave. Most Greeks have also left.

</doc>
<doc id="145747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145747" title="Tskhinvali">
Tskhinvali

Tskhinvali is the capital city of South Ossetia.

</doc>
<doc id="145748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145748" title="Mariehamn">
Mariehamn

Mariehamm () is the capital city of the Åland Islands, an autonomous region in Finland. As of January 2014, more than 11,400 people lived in Mariehamm. Many ships sail between Mariehamn and the port of Turku.

</doc>
<doc id="145749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145749" title="Funchal">
Funchal

Funchal is the capital city of Madeira, part of Portugal. It is also the largest city of Madeira with 111,892 people.
Funchal is in a valley. It has even temperatures all year round. There is a rainier and slightly cooler season from October through March. A drier and warmer season lasts from April through September.
The harbour of Funchal used to be the only major port in Madeira. In 2007 cargo trade was moved to the port of Caniçal, 12 miles to the east. Funchal still serves cruise ships, ferries, and other tourist-related boats and yachts. 
A highway to Câmara de Lobos and Ribeira Brava is to the west. Santa Cruz, Machico and Caniçal can be reached to the east.
Madeira Airport is east of the city, in the municipality of Santa Cruz.

</doc>
<doc id="145750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145750" title="Simferopol">
Simferopol

Simferopol () was the capital city of Crimea, Ukraine. It became the capital city of the Republic of Crimea on March 11, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="145751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145751" title="Chess boxing">
Chess boxing

Chess boxing is a mixed sport which puts together the sport of boxing with games of chess in every other round. Chess boxing fights have been done since early 2003. The sport was started when Dutch artist Iepe Rubingh, given the idea by a similar sport in the writing of Enki Bilal, started actual matches. The sport has become more well known since then. To do well at chess boxing, players must be both good chess players and good boxers.
A match between two players is made up of up to eleven rounds of boxing and chess sessions, starting with a four-minute chess round followed by two minutes of boxing and so on. Between rounds there is a one-minute pause, during which the players change their gear. The form of chess played is speed chess in which each player has a total of twelve minutes for the whole game. Players may win by knocking out the other player, checkmate, a judge's choice, or if the other player runs out of chess time. If a player does not make a move in the round of chess, he will be given a warning by the referee and he must then make a move in the next 10 seconds.
The idea was started in 1992 by cartoonist Enki Bilal, and a match of chess boxing was a big story part of his graphic novel "Froid Équateur". Iepe Rubingh, a Dutch artist, was took the idea from Bilal's book and started the sport in the spring of 2001. Rubingh decided that the method of play in the book, a boxing match with a chess match after, was not very good. Rubingh made the rules so a round of chess would come after a round of boxing.
The World Chess Boxing Organisation (WCBO), keeps control of the sport. The first world championship was in Amsterdam in 2003 and was won by Iepe Rubingh, the starter of the sport. The First European Chess Boxing Championship took place in Berlin on October 1, 2005 when Tihomir Atanassov Dovramadjiev of Bulgaria beat Andreas D'Schneider of Germany after D'Schneider gave up in the seventh round.
In April 2008, the World Chess Federation, FIDE, posted a video on its website in which its president Kirsan Ilyumzhinov played a friendly chess boxing match in Elista. Also in April 2008 the UK's first Chess Boxing club was started in London by Great Britain Chess Boxing Organisation founder Tim Woolgar. In July 2008 in Berlin, a 19-year old Russian mathematics student Nikolai Sazhin won the title of "World Champion" in chess boxing by beating Frank Stoldt. Stoldt resigned in the 5th round after losing his queen.

</doc>
<doc id="145752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145752" title="Iepe Rubingh">
Iepe Rubingh

Iepe B. T. Rubingh (; born 17 August, 1974) is a Dutch artist who is best known for starting chess boxing in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="145753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145753" title="Teresa Stratas">
Teresa Stratas

Teresa Stratas (born May 26, 1938) is a Canadian soprano opera singer and actress. She was born in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Stratas has won 3 Grammy Awards and been nominated for a Tony Award

</doc>
<doc id="145756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145756" title="Beth Groundwater">
Beth Groundwater

Beth Groundwater is an American author who has written two novels in the Claire Hanover gift basket designer mystery series, "A Real Basket Case" and "To Hell in a Handbasket". The first, published in March, 2007, was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007. The sequel, "To Hell in a Handbasket" was published in May, 2009. She writes in the Mystery genre, and has also written several short stories.
Groundwater first began writing fiction in the fifth grade, and in high school took an outside study in English. She went to the College of William and Mary and got a degree in Psychology and Computer Science in 1978. She worked in another job until 1999, then she chose to become a writer.
After going to a few writers' meetings, she began writing short stories. Seven were published before she met a literary agent who agreed to publish her first novel, "A Real Basket Case". It was published in 2007, and was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007. Of her short stories, eight have been published and one was written in Farsi. Another of Groundwater's short stories has been made into a live play.
Groundwater's writings have won several awards. Her first novel was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007. Groundwater's short stories have won awards also. Her short story "New Zealand" won first place in the 2003 PPW Paul Gillette Memorial Writing Contest, and was the winner of the Rocky Mountain Fiction Writers Short Story Anthology Contest. "Flamingo Fatality" won the Great Manhattan Mysteries Conclave Short Story Anthology Contest in 2005, and her 2005 short story "Lucky Bear" was first in the Storyteller Magazine Flash Fiction Contest.

</doc>
<doc id="145758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145758" title="Wikipedia:Wikicup/2009 Nations/Example">
Wikipedia:Wikicup/2009 Nations/Example

<div style="background:#7676f4; border-style:solid; border-width:1px; border-color:#000099; padding-left:1em; padding-right:0.5em; padding-bottom:0.5em;">
The WikiCup is a championship which will take place for the first time on Simple English Wikipedia. The cup is played and won by skill of editing, in which the purpose of the cup is to encourage editing and to make editing fun here on Wikipedia.
The tournament is played in the style of the FIFA World Cup. Editors are split into teams, each running for a certain period of time, before being compared and the top two teams from each round will move to the next round. This continues until there are just 4 teams left, when a Semi-Final will occur. From this, the top two teams will progress to the Final, and the bottom two will progress to the 3rd Place Edit-off, or "Plate".
The winners will get a wikicup, the runners-up another award and everyone else will get an award just for taking part.
The points are awarded in the following way - :
You may consider using the following to select your country or state/county. - 
Please leave the following on the page "#"
Please check that your Country, state or county is not already taken, because otherwise we will assign you a different one!
It is planned for there to be the initial Pool round, the Quarter-Final, Semi-Final and Final, however more rounds may be added depending on user uptake. The judges will make any changes to the rounds clear.
"The Pools will be decided by the Judges during December 31st 2008"
The Pools will run from "00:00 January 1 2009" until "00:00 March 1 2009". The top two from each pool will progress to the quarter final.
Orange Pool
Green Pool
Red Pool
Yellow Pool
The Quarter-Final will run from "00:00 March 2 2009" to "00:00 April 2 2009". 
The top user in each Quarter-Final will then enter the Semi-Final, starting at "00:00 May 3 2009" and ending at "00:00, June 3 2009".
The winner of each Semi-Final will then go to the Final, taking place between "00:00 June 4 2009" and "00:00, July 4 2009". The other two users will then enter the "Plate" for Third and Fourth Place.
Note: All times are in UTC.
The two users that do not progress to the Final will enter the Plate to compete for third and fourth place. It will run over the same period as the Final.

</doc>
<doc id="145759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145759" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Yottie/2">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Yottie/2

Hi everyone, in this article I'm going to talk to you about my wikiproject about France. First of all, it need expanding somewhat, and you can help to do that!
"If you didn't know", France is a country in Europe and it's population is just over 60 million.
However, on Simple English Wikipedia, lots of articles about it are missing. I have myself started to write the Communes of France but there are over 30,000 left. I have also written all the missing departments of France; they need expanding! And concerning french rivers, or mountains, or cantons, or arrondissements, there are hardly any written at all! There are also many articles concerning French literature that need to be written.
As you can see, there is a lot of work to do, lots of articles to write, to boost your Mainspace edits, and make "Simple English Wikipedia" better!
So what are you waiting for, and start editing!

</doc>
<doc id="145760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145760" title="Yanina Batyrchina">
Yanina Batyrchina

Yana (Yanina) Batyrshina (Russian:Яна (Янина) Фархадовна Батыршина, born October 07, 1979 in Tashkent, Uzbek SSR, Soviet Union) is a former Individual Rhythmic Gymnast. She competed for Russia. She was born to Tatar father and Jewish mother.

</doc>
<doc id="145761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145761" title="A Real Basket Case">
A Real Basket Case

A Real Basket Case is a fictional mystery novel that was written by Beth Groundwater. It was published by Five Star Publishing on March 21, 2007. It was later re-published in large print in January of 2008. The novel follows the story of Claire Hanover who sets out to find out who murdered her husband.
It was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007. The sequel, "To Hell in a Handbasket" is scheduled to be published in 2009.
Even though Beth Groundwater won the Princess of Rejection prize from the Sisters in Crime Guppies Chapter for having the second most rejections for her writings in the winter of 2005, "A Real Basket Case" was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007.
The novel got good reviews in several large newspapers. Barbara Bibel from Booklist review said that, "This will appeal to Desperate Housewives fans and those who like cozies with a bit of spice." Kirkus Reviews called "A Real Basket Case" "A tense, exciting debut." Author J.B. Thompson praised the novel, but he also said the main character could have been written better.

</doc>
<doc id="145764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145764" title="Right Now (Leon Jackson album)">
Right Now (Leon Jackson album)

Right Now is the debut album by X Factor winner Leon Jackson. 

</doc>
<doc id="145769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145769" title="Leon Jackson">
Leon Jackson

Leon Jackson (born 30 December 1988) is a Scottish singer. He won the 2007 UK series of the television show "The X Factor". His singles are "When You Believe", "Don't Call This Love" and "Creative". His album is "Right Now". 

</doc>
<doc id="145775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145775" title="Karditsa">
Karditsa

Karditsa is a Greek city. It is in the center of Greece in the district of Thessaly. It had 35,971 people according to the 2001 census. Karditsa is build on the large plain which is named Thessaly plain. It is the second largest plain in Greece. So it is an agricultural city. Near Karditsa is the city of Trikala.In the west of Karditsa is the Agrafa range. Agrafa is a part of Pindus range. 

</doc>
<doc id="145783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145783" title="Category:Hominids">
Category:Hominids

Hominids of the family Hominidae.

</doc>
<doc id="145786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145786" title="Category:Spanish explorers">
Category:Spanish explorers


</doc>
<doc id="145788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145788" title="Category:Italian explorers">
Category:Italian explorers


</doc>
<doc id="145789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145789" title="Category:Portuguese explorers">
Category:Portuguese explorers


</doc>
<doc id="145802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145802" title="Gooloogong, New South Wales">
Gooloogong, New South Wales

Gooloogong is a small town in New South Wales. It is built on the banks of the Lachlan River. It is 57km south east of Forbes, 34 km north west of Cowra and 358 km west of the state capital, Sydney. There are about 250 people living in Gooloogong.
The town was established in the 1860s on what was the Pastoral Lease 'Goolagong'of Edward Sheahan from around 1840.
The town was originally built much closer to the Lachlan River, but was moved to higher ground because of floods.
John O'Meally is buried in an unmarked grave in the Anglican cemetery at Gooloogong. He was a member of Ben Hall's gang. He was shot dead when the gang tried to rob the Campbell's farm, Goimbla Station, on November 19, 1863.
Gooloogong has a hotel, shops and a park.

</doc>
<doc id="145803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145803" title="Boorowa, New South Wales">
Boorowa, New South Wales

Boorowa is a small town in New South Wales. It is from Yass. The town is built on the banks of the Boorowa River, which flows into the Lachlan River. The town was first called "Burrowa". Boorowa and Burrowa are Aboriginal words in the Wiradjuri language meaning "birds". In 2008, there were 1350 living in Boorowa.
The first people to live in the area were the Wiraduri people. This was one of the largest tribes in New South Wales. They had several regular camping sites along the Lachlan and Boorowa Rivers. It is estimated that there were several thousand Wiradjuri people at the time of European settlement. A survey in 1851 showed that there were only 300 people left. Local Wiradjuri people were forced onto government reserves at Rye Park and Edgerton.
It is not known for sure who the first European explorers were in this area. Hamilton Hume and his neighbour, William Broughton, had explored the Yass area in 1821. They may have gone farther towards the Lachlan. Broughton had one of the first farms on the Boorowa River in 1828. By 1849, he had of land in the area. Other early settlers were James Hassall in 1827. His family already had large farms at Cowra by 1823. His brother Tom Hassal, a clergyman and his wife Ann Marsden (daughter of Reverend Samuel Marsden) and other family members were given land in 1831. There was a law at the time which gave free land to the children of clergy.
Many of the settlers in Boorowa were from Ireland and the town shows their influence. Two early settlers in the 1820s were cousins, Roger Corcoran and Ned Ryan. They had been sent to Australia as convicts. Saint Patrick's Church, built in 1877 has a huge stained glass window brought from Ireland in 1881. It shows Daniel O'Connell (1775-1847) the "Liberator of Ireland." The oldest building still standing in Boorowa is Shamrock Cottage, built in 1850, once the home of the owner of the Queens Arms Hotel.
There are many old buildings still standing in Boorowa. Webb and Crego's store, built in 1862, was robbed by bushranger Ben Hall in 1863. The Royal Hotel, built in 1860, is still a hotel although it is now called the Ram and Stallion Hotel. The Court House, built in 1884, is now an information centre for tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="145808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145808" title="Murringo, New South Wales">
Murringo, New South Wales

Murringo is a small town in New South Wales. It is 25kms east of Young and 406 km west of the state capital, Sydney. The town was in the area often robbed by the bushranger, Ben Hall.
Europen settlers moved into the area in 1827. The first farm in the area was Marengo Station, 1833, owned by John Scarr. By 1840 there were about 40 people living in the area. When the town was laid out by the surveyors in 1849, they called the town Murringo. It has also been called Meringo, Marringa, Maringa, Muringo, Maringo and Marengo. In 1926 the town was officially called Murringo. In 1864, Ben Hall robbed John Scarr and his brother as they rode along the road to Burrowa.
The original plans included a market place, a big cemetery and large parks. When gold was found nearby at Lambing Flat in 1860, most of the people moved to the goldfields. Although there were only about 120 people living in the town, the people saved money and built the Christ Church Anglican Church in 1866. The foundation stone for the Sacred Heart Catholic Church was laid in 1871. A post office opened in 1857.
A number of historic buildings are still standing in Murringo. The church (1866), the Marengo Hotel, the police station (1880), the school (1870), school teacher's house (1879), the Plough Inn (a hotel) (built before 1860) and the Post Office (1857). A blacksmiths shop and cottage from the 1870's has been turned into a craft workshop.

</doc>
<doc id="145816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145816" title="Wellington, New South Wales">
Wellington, New South Wales

Wellington is a town in New South Wales. It is where the Macquarie and Bell Rivers join together. The town is the centre of the Wellington Shire Local Government Area. The town is 362kms from Sydney on the Great Western Highway and Mitchell Highway. The average summer temperatures are between 17.5º Celsius and 31.7º Celsius. In winter the temperatures are between 1.5º Celsius and 15º Celsius. In 2001 there were 4,672 people living in Wellington. There were 9,200 people living in the Wellington Shire.
The area was originally lived in by the Wiradjuri people. Explorer John Oxley was the first Europen to discover the area in 1817. He named it "Wellington Valley" after Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
Wellington was settled in the 1823 by Lieutenant Percy Simpson in early 1823 as a convict settlement. Farmers started settling along the Macquarie Valley. The convict settlement closed in 1831. In 1832 a Christian mission was started in the settlement for the Aborigines. A village called Montefiores was started on the north side of the Macquarie River crossing. The village of Wellington was officially listed in 1846 and was made a town in 1879. Wellington Shire Council was started in 1947.
Wellington is the second oldest New South Wales settlement west of the Blue Mountains. A hotel that opened in 1842 is the oldest hotel west of the Blue Mountains. It was also the site of the last recorded duel fought in Australia in 1854. The railway from Sydney reached Wellington in 1880.
Wellington is the centre of rich farm land. Lucerne and vegetables are grown on land beside the river. Wheat, wool, fat lambs and beef cattle are grown nearby. The town acts as a business centre for the district. However, now Orange and Dubbo have become bigger business centres.
In September 2008, a gaol, the Wellington Correctional Centre was opened. A Probation and Parole Office was also opened in the centre of town. Wellington Council hopes this will increase the number of jobs and bring visitors to the town.
The local newspaper "The Wellington Times", owned by Rural Press, is printed three times a week..
There is a daily train, the CountryLink XPT, which runs between Sydney and Dubbo.
The closest commercial airport is at Dubbo. There are regular daily flights from Sydney. There is a small airport ( Bondangora Airport) for private planes 12 km east of Wellington.
Lake Burrendong, a man-made lake. is 30 km south of the town. Its holds three and a half times more water than Sydney Harbour. Its water is used for farming. It is also visited by people wanting to fish, sail and water ski. Burrendong Arboretum is a sanctuary for endangered Australian plants and covers 1.60 km².
The Wellington Caves are millions of years old. The main cave is Cathedral Cave with the massive Altar Rock.
The Wellington Boot, a country racing festival is held in every year in March and April. There is also a winery, the Bell River Wine Estate. The Nangara Gallery has a collection of Aboriginal objects.

</doc>
<doc id="145821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145821" title="White Christmas">
White Christmas

A white Christmas means that at least an inch of snow has fallen on Christmas Morning. This is more common in some countries than in others. 
For example, in the United Kingdom, there are not a lot of White Christmases; but in Canada, there is almost always a White Christmas. Ireland's last "official" White Christmas was in 2004.
Since the 1950's, there are less White Christmases in the USA.

</doc>
<doc id="145822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145822" title="Binalong, New South Wales">
Binalong, New South Wales

Binalong (postcode: 2584, ) is a small town in New South Wales, Australia. It is 37 km north-west of Yass. 
The Aboriginal people who lived in the area were part of the Ngunnawal people. The first Europen to visit the area was Hamilton Hume in 1821. The name of the town is believed to come from either an Aboriginal word meaning 'towards a high place' or from 'Bennelong', the name of a famous Aborigine.
Binalong was outside the legal limits of European settlement in New South Wales. However farmers settled in the area before the law changed to allow settlement in 1839. From 1847 there was a police camp at Binalong and a court. The old Cobb and Co inn was built at that time as a staging post for Cobb and Co coaches.
The town was officially listed in 1850. It was an important stop on the way for people going to look for gold at Lambing Flat. The school was started in 1861. Gold also meant that there were bushrangers in the area. The grave of John Gilbert is near the town in the field where the police kept their horses. He was a member of Frank Gardiner's gang and later Ben Hall's gang. He was shot dead by police in 1865. 
The first railway station opened in 1875. The railway arrived in 1876. The current building was put up when the railway line was moved in 1916. The station and the signal box are now closed.
The family of the poet Banjo Paterson moved to the Binalong area in 1869 when he was five years old. He went to the primary school in Binalong but later went to boarding school in Sydney. He only came home in the holidays. Binalong features in a number of his poems, for example, "Pardon, the son of Reprieve". Paterson's father is buried in the local cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="145829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145829" title="Astro">
Astro

Astro can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="145830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145830" title="Astro (satellite TV)">
Astro (satellite TV)

Astro is a subscription-based direct broadcast satellite service based in Bukit Jalil, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It transmits digital satellite television and radio to households in Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia and Singapore. Astro is owned by MEASAT Broadcast Network Systems, which is a subsidiary of Astro All Asia Networks plc.
6 Channel M

</doc>
<doc id="145831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145831" title="Muscle Shoals, Alabama">
Muscle Shoals, Alabama

Muscle Shoals is a city in Colbert County, Alabama, United States. As of 2006, the United States Census Bureau estimated the population of the city to be 12,703.

</doc>
<doc id="145832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145832" title="Moulton, Alabama">
Moulton, Alabama

Moulton is a city in Lawrence County, Alabama. It is included in the Decatur Metropolitan Area, as well as the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 3,260. The city is the county seat of Lawrence County.

</doc>
<doc id="145833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145833" title="Montevallo, Alabama">
Montevallo, Alabama

Montevallo is a city in Shelby County, Alabama, United States. A college town, it is the home of the University of Montevallo, a public liberal arts university with around 3000 students. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city of Montevallo was 4,825.

</doc>
<doc id="145834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145834" title="Monroeville, Alabama">
Monroeville, Alabama

Monroeville is a city in Monroe County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 6,862. The city is the county seat of Monroe County.
Author Harper Lee was born and raised in Monroeville. In her book "To Kill a Mockingbird", the fictional town of Maycomb is modeled on her hometown. The book received the 1961 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.

</doc>
<doc id="145835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145835" title="Millbrook, Alabama">
Millbrook, Alabama

Millbrook is a city in Autauga and Elmore counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. The population was 10,386 at the 2000 census. It is part of the Montgomery Metropolitan Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="145836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145836" title="Madison, Alabama">
Madison, Alabama

Madison is a city in Limestone and Madison counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the Census Bureau estimates, the population of the city was 36,824.
Madison, AL is very close to Redstone Arsenal, AL, a major US army installation. Redstone Arsenal is growing in importance to the region due to expansion mandated by BRAC. Personnel from other military installations across the country will be moving to Redstone in 2009 - 2011. Estimates are that as many as 15,000 new families will arrive in North Alabama due to this expansion. Madison is one of the fastest growing communities in Alabama. The region's economy is also supported by NASA (the Marshall Space Flight Center), and major defense contractors. 
Madison is served by a good public school system and by numerous private schools. Some of the accredited private schools are Madison Academy, Westminster Christian Academy, Randolph School, and Faith Christian Academy.

</doc>
<doc id="145837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145837" title="Marion, Alabama">
Marion, Alabama

Marion is the county seat of Perry County, Alabama. As of the 2010 census, the population of the city was 3,686. The city was first called "Muckle Ridge". It was renamed after a hero of the American Revolution, Francis Marion.

</doc>
<doc id="145838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145838" title="Midfield, Alabama">
Midfield, Alabama

Midfield is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 5,626.

</doc>
<doc id="145839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145839" title="Fairhope, Alabama">
Fairhope, Alabama

Fairhope is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama. It is on a sloping plateau, along the cliffs and shoreline of Mobile Bay. As of the 2000 census, 12,480 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="145840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145840" title="Fairfield, Alabama">
Fairfield, Alabama

Fairfield is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. It is a suburb of Birmingham. The population was 12,381 at the 2000 census. Fairfield was founded in 1910.

</doc>
<doc id="145843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145843" title="Fultondale, Alabama">
Fultondale, Alabama

Fultondale is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. It is a northern suburb of Birmingham. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 6,595. As of 2006, was estimated to be 6,905.

</doc>
<doc id="145844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145844" title="Fruithurst, Alabama">
Fruithurst, Alabama

Fruithurst is a city in Cleburne County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 270.

</doc>
<doc id="145845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145845" title="Fort Payne, Alabama">
Fort Payne, Alabama

Fort Payne is a city in DeKalb County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 12,938. The city is the county seat of DeKalb County. The city calls itself the "Official Sock Capital of the World."
A magnitude 4.9 earthquake occurred here in 2003.
Fort Payne has the headquarters for the nearby Little River Canyon National Preserve, a 14000 acre National Park Service facility. The canyon itself is at Lookout Mountain outside the city limits. Another attraction is DeSoto State Park, a smaller facility with a lodge, restaurant, cabins, and river access areas.
Fort Payne is served by the Fort Payne City Schools system which includes:
Fort Payne is also served by the Northeast Alabama Community College which is in Rainsville.

</doc>
<doc id="145846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145846" title="Fort Mitchell, Alabama">
Fort Mitchell, Alabama

Fort Mitchell is a community of 1,400 people in Russell County, Alabama, USA. It is south of Phenix City. The area was first a garrisoned fort. It was meant to help defend the area during the Creek War.

</doc>
<doc id="145847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145847" title="Foley, Alabama">
Foley, Alabama

Foley is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States. The 2000 census lists the population of the city as 7,590.

</doc>
<doc id="145848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145848" title="Florence, Alabama">
Florence, Alabama

Florence is a city in and the county seat of Lauderdale County, Alabama, United States. It is in the northwestern corner of the state.

</doc>
<doc id="145849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145849" title="Florala, Alabama">
Florala, Alabama

Florala is a city in Covington County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 1,964.

</doc>
<doc id="145850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145850" title="Fayette, Alabama">
Fayette, Alabama

Fayette is a city in Fayette County, Alabama, United States. The 2000 census lists the population as 4,922. The city is the county seat of Fayette County.

</doc>
<doc id="145851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145851" title="Russellville, Alabama">
Russellville, Alabama

Russellville is a city in Franklin County in the U.S. state of Alabama. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 8,971. The city is the county seat of Franklin County.

</doc>
<doc id="145852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145852" title="Robertsdale, Alabama">
Robertsdale, Alabama

Robertsdale is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 3,782.

</doc>
<doc id="145853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145853" title="Roanoke, Alabama">
Roanoke, Alabama

Roanoke is a city in Randolph County, Alabama, United States.
Roanoke is served by a weekly newspaper, "The Randolph Leader". As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 6,563.

</doc>
<doc id="145854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145854" title="Reform, Alabama">
Reform, Alabama

Reform is a city in Pickens County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 1,978.

</doc>
<doc id="145855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145855" title="Red Bay, Alabama">
Red Bay, Alabama

Red Bay is a city in Franklin County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 3,374.

</doc>
<doc id="145856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145856" title="Rainsville, Alabama">
Rainsville, Alabama

Rainsville is a city in DeKalb County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 4,499. Rainsville was incorporated in October of 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="145857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145857" title="Rainbow City, Alabama">
Rainbow City, Alabama

Rainbow City is a city in Etowah County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Gadsden Metropolitan Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="145858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145858" title="Robert II of Scotland">
Robert II of Scotland

Robert II (early 1316 - 19 April 1390) was King of Scotland from 1371 through 1390. He was the first king of the House of Stewart.

</doc>
<doc id="145860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145860" title="Robert III of Scotland">
Robert III of Scotland

Robert III (c. 1340 - 4 April 1406) was King of Scotland from 1390 through 1406.

</doc>
<doc id="145861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145861" title="Magic Tour">
Magic Tour

The Magic Tour was the biggest and last tour by the English rock band Queen with their lead singer Freddie Mercury. The tour started in Sweden on 7 June 1986. It ended in England on 9 August 1987. The next band's tour Queen + Paul Rodgers Tour began about 19 years later, after the death of Freddie Mercury and the retirement of John Deacon. The tour included performances on 26 dates at Europe's stadiums. It was in support of their album "A Kind of Magic".
In 1987, Mercury was diagnosed with HIV. The band together made the decision to stop touring. This made the concert at Knebworth on 9 August the last time the four members of Queen would perform onstage together.

</doc>
<doc id="145862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145862" title="James II of Scotland">
James II of Scotland

James II (16 October 1430– 3 August 1460) was King of Scotland from 1437 through 1460. He was born at Holyrood Palace, Edinburgh.

</doc>
<doc id="145863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145863" title="James III of Scotland">
James III of Scotland

James III (c. 1451/1452 - 1488) was King of Scotland from 1460 through 1488.

</doc>
<doc id="145864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145864" title="James IV of Scotland">
James IV of Scotland

James IV (17 March 1473 – 9 September 1513) was King of Scotland from 1488 through 1513.
Some of James' relatives were:

</doc>
<doc id="145865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145865" title="James V of Scotland">
James V of Scotland

James V (1512-1542) was King of Scotland from 1513 through 1542. He was the father of Mary Queen of Scots.

</doc>
<doc id="145885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145885" title="George Butterworth">
George Butterworth

George Butterworth (born London, 12 July 1885; died Pozières, France, 5 August 1916) was an English composer. He showed great talent as a young man and might have become one of England’s greatest composers if he had lived longer. He was killed while fighting in World War I. He is best known for a group of songs which are settings of poems by A. E. Housman.
Butterworth was born in London. His father was a solicitor who later became the general manager of the North Eastern Railway. The family moved to Yorkshire soon after George’s birth. He had his first music lessons from his mother, who was a singer, He soon started to compose music. His father wanted him to be a solicitor and so he sent his son to Eton College. From there he went to Trinity College, Oxford. At Oxford he became more and more involved with music, especially after he met the folk song collector Cecil Sharp and composer and folk song enthusiast Ralph Vaughan Williams. Butterworth and Vaughan Williams made several trips into the English countryside to collect folk songs. Both of them were influenced by English folk songs when they were composing. Butterworth was also a very good folk dancer. He was particularly fond of Morris dancing.
Vaughan Williams and Butterworth became close friends. It was Butterworth who said to Vaughan Williams that it would be a good idea to turn the symphonic poem he was working on into his "London Symphony". When the manuscript for that piece was lost in the post Butterworth and two other musicians helped Vaughan Williams to write it out again. Vaughan Williams dedicated the piece to Butterworth's memory after his death. When he left Oxford, Butterworth became a music critic for "The Times" as well as composing and teaching at Radley College, Oxfordshire. He also studied at the Royal College of Music for a short time, working with people such as Hubert Parry and Charles Villiers Stanford. 
Although Butterworth had lots of work he often felt that his life had no purpose. When World War I broke out, Butterworth felt that he could be useful so he joined the British Army. He was killed by a sniper in 1916 at Pozières leading a raid during the Battle of the Somme. His body was not found, and his name appears on the Thiepval memorial, near the site of the Somme. He was awarded the Military Cross, and a trench was named after him.
Butterworth did not write a great deal of music, and during the war he destroyed many of his compositions that he thought were not good enough. Of those that survive, his works based on A. E. Housman's collection of poems "A Shropshire Lad" are the best known. Many English composers of Butterworth's time set Housman's poetry, including Ralph Vaughan Williams.
Butterworth wrote two song cycles on Housman's poems. They include some of the best-loved English songs of the 20th century, especially "Is My Team Ploughing?" and "Loveliest of Trees". He used this last song as the basis for his 1912 orchestral rhapsody, also called "A Shropshire Lad". It is full of soft, tender music as well as passion.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie, 1980, ISBN 1-56159-174-2.

</doc>
<doc id="145886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145886" title="Charles Villiers Stanford">
Charles Villiers Stanford

Sir Charles Villiers Stanford (born Dublin, 30 September 1852; died London, 29 March 1924) was an Irish composer who lived in England for most of his life. 
Stanford was born in Dublin. His father was a very successful lawyer who was also interested in music. He played the cello and sang. Stanford’s mother played the piano. The young boy heard a lot of music at his home as there were often visitors who came to make music. Charles studied the piano, organ and composition and was composing and performing at concerts when he was still very young.
His parents had wanted their son to be a lawyer, but it was obvious that music was to be his profession. He won a scholarship to Queens' College, Cambridge in 1870 where he was a choral scholar. He learned very quickly and in 1873, while he was still a student, he was made organist of Trinity College and conductor of two choirs. While he had these jobs he was given time to make visits to Germany where he studied with Carl Reinecke and Friedrich Kiel. He met several famous composers including Brahms and Offenbach. He went to the opening of the Bayreuth Festival Theatre where the music of Richard Wagner was performed.
Stanford took his BA degree in 1874 and MA in 1878, and was given the honorary degree of D.Mus. at Oxford in 1883 and at Cambridge in 1888. He had a lot of energy and was known for working very hard. When the Royal College of Music opened in London in 1883 Stanford was made professor there. He became conductor of the Bach Choir and then he was made professor of music at Cambridge. He was still only 35 years old. He kept these two professorships until his death. Although he gave up his job as organist at Trinity he became conductor of the Leeds Triennial Festival and appeared with nearly every important British music festival. In 1902 he was knighted.
Stanford married in 1878 and the couple had two children.
Stanford died in London and was buried in Westminster Abbey.
Stanford is best known today for the choral music he wrote for the Anglican church. These includes some very fine anthems and motets as well as service settings. His music was much better than most of the church music that had been composed during the 19th century, so he helped to make British music better. He composed many pieces for music festivals: these include oratorios and cantatas as well as partsongs and solo songs. He also wrote a lot of orchestral and instrumental works. These often show the influence of Brahms and Schumann.
As a teacher of composition Stanford had a great deal of influence on many British composers. He sometimes had a bad temper, but he was also very good at showing students how they could improve their music. Composers such as Charles Wood, Constant Lambert, Vaughan Williams, Holst, Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, Rutland Boughton, John Ireland, Frank Bridge, George Butterworth, Arthur Bliss, Herbert Howells, Arthur Benjamin and Ernest J. Moeran all learned a great deal from him, and continued to admire him.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie, 1980. ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="145911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145911" title="Thaksin Shinawatra">
Thaksin Shinawatra

Thaksin Shinawatra (b. July 26, 1949) is a Thai businessman, politician, former Prime Minister of Thailand. He is a former leader of the Thai Rak Thai Party.

</doc>
<doc id="145913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145913" title="Phitsanulok">
Phitsanulok

Phitsanulok is an important province in history north of Thailand.
In the Sukhothai Period, Somdej Phra Maha Dhammaraja Lithai was order to called Song Khwai. He order his son, Phra Sai Lue Thai to govern this city. 
In the Ayuahya Period, Song Khwai renamed to Muang Phitsanulok. And in Somdej Phra Borom Trai Lokkanat period, Muang Phitsanulok became the capital city for 25 years. Muang Phitsanulok became more importance. 
In the early Rattankosin Period, Phitsanulok still importance city of Thailand.
Phra Buddha Chinnaraj is the one of most beautiful Buddha image in Thailand. Phra Buddha Chinnaraj was build in 1900 B.E. Now Phra Buddha Chinnaraj is housed in 
Wat Phra Sri Maha That Woramahavihar.
พระพุทธชินราชงามเลิศ
ถิ่นกำเนิดพระนเรศวร
สองฝั่งน่านล้วนเรือนแพ
หวานฉ่ำแท้กล้วยตาก
ถ้ำและน้ำตกหลากตระการตา

</doc>
<doc id="145914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145914" title="Chatuchak Weekend Market">
Chatuchak Weekend Market

Chatuchak Weekend Market (also spelled Jatujak) is a market in Bangkok. In the past, it was in Sanamluang, and the staffs of Siam handicraft.com’s shop had been started his business on producing, selling, and being agents for selling Thai handicraft product. In Buddhist Era 2521, the government wanted this place to be the park for relaxing and exercising. Thailand’s government authorities train gave Pahonyothin area connected to southern of Chatuchak Weekend Market to make a new market so the Sanamluang market had moved there and changed the named after the area named “Pahonyothin area market”. In Buddhist Era 2530, it had been changed the named to “Chatuchak Weekend Market” until now. 
Nowadays Chatuchak Weekend Market has been made buying and selling culture and be famous around the world as the center of selling products. It has more than 112,000 square meters. Foreign tourists know Jatujak market as JJ market or Chatuchak Weekend Market.

</doc>
<doc id="145916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145916" title="List of professional wrestling terms">
List of professional wrestling terms

Professional wrestling has accrued a considerable amount of slang, in-references and jargon. Much of it stems from the industry's origins in the days of carnivals, and the slang itself is often referred to as "carny talk." Often wrestlers used this lingo in the presence of fans so as not to reveal the worked nature of the business. In recent years, widespread wrestling discussion on the Internet popularized the terms.
(Ex: Paul Heyman)

</doc>
<doc id="145920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145920" title="Nitrous oxide">
Nitrous oxide

Nitrous oxide is a gas with the chemical formula NO. It is found naturally in the air. It is also made artificially, because it has many uses. It is a very strong greenhouse gas (almost 300 times more so than carbon dioxide). Because it is a greenhouse gas, people are trying to use it less. 
Nitrous oxide is used by doctors and dentists to reduce pain. In the body, it makes people feel happy. For this reason it is also called "laughing gas". It is sometimes used "only" to feel happy, like an illegal drug.
Nitrous oxide is used in high performance cars to increase the power of their engines. When it is used this way, it is usually called "nitrous" or "NOS". 
Nitrous oxide can also be used in aerosol spray cans, especially for foods like whipped cream. This is because it has a sweet taste and is not toxic, and also makes the whipped cream more fluffy.

</doc>
<doc id="145964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145964" title="Choral scholar">
Choral scholar

A choral scholar is a student at a university who gets money to help with the fees of his or her studies (a “scholarship”) in exchange for singing in the university’s choir. Some private schools also have choral scholarships. 
In the United Kingdom there are choral scholarships available at schools belonging to a cathedral or to one of the university colleges in Oxford and Cambridge. Some of these choirs are world famous for their church music such as the choirs of King’s College, Cambridge, St John’s College, Cambridge or New College, Oxford. Choral scholars in such choirs will be expected to sing at the services in the morning and evening (late afternoon) on Sundays as well as at Evensong on several days during the week. There will be rehearsals on most days.

</doc>
<doc id="145965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145965" title="Stanford">
Stanford

Stanford might mean: 

</doc>
<doc id="145972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145972" title="George Benjamin">
George Benjamin

George Benjamin (born 31 January, 1960, London, England) is a British composer.
Benjamin started playing piano when he was seven years old and soon started writing his first pieces of music. In 1976 he went to study at the Paris Conservatoire where Olivier Messiaen taught him musical composition and Yvonne Loriod taught him the piano. He then studied composition with Alexander Goehr at King’s College, Cambridge.
He was still only 20 when one of his compositions was played at the BBC Proms. Since then his works have been played by many famous orchestras. He has worked regularly at the Tanglewood Festival. He has conducted famous orchestras like the London Sinfonietta, Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra.
George Benjamin lives in London where he is Professor of Composition at King’s College, London. He has been given many honors including the Chevalier dans l’ordre des Arts et Lettres in 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="145981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145981" title="Episcopal High School">
Episcopal High School

Episcopal High School was founded in 1839. It is a private boarding school in Alexandria, VA. The school's nickname is 'The Holy Hill' and it's campus is 130 acres large. Around 435 students live on the campus. These students are from 30 states, the District of Columbia and 17 countries. The school does not take any day students, all of the students have to live on campus.
When it was founded in 1839, it was the first high school in Virginia. It was originally called the 'Howard School'. It became known as 'The High School'. Originally only males were allowed to study at Episcopal. In 1991 the school allowed 48 female students to study. Today 50% of students are female.
The school has a set of simple rules it calls "honor code". Many schools have rules similar to Episcopal's Honor Code.
Episcopal's Honor Code says:
After a student finishes an important document, he or she must write the following and sign their name:

</doc>
<doc id="145982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145982" title="Gordon Gray">
Gordon Gray

Gordon Gray (May 30, 1909 – November 26, 1982) was a government official of the United States during the administrations of Harry Truman (1945-53) and Dwight Eisenhower (1953-61).

</doc>
<doc id="145983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145983" title="William Eustis">
William Eustis

William Eustis (June 21, 1753 – February 6, 1825) Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War. He served as United States Secretary of War from March 7, 1809 to January 13, 1813. He was appointed United States Ambassador to Holland by President James Madison, serving from 1814 to 1818.

</doc>
<doc id="145999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145999" title="Rheda-Wiedenbrück">
Rheda-Wiedenbrück

Rheda-Wiedenbrück is a town in the district of Gütersloh, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 46,000 people live there. The town is famous for a lot of old and fine houses, which were built hundreds of years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="146001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146001" title="Debrecen">
Debrecen

Debrecen is a city in Hajdu-Bihar, Northern Great Plain, Hungary. It is Hungary's second largest, after the capital, Budapest.

</doc>
<doc id="146014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146014" title="Bryan Adams discography">
Bryan Adams discography


</doc>
<doc id="146025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146025" title="Oryx">
Oryx

The Oryx (also called the sabre antelope) is a fast-running hoofed mammal that lives in dry regions of Africa and Asia (including the Arabian peninsula). They inhabit steppes (sparse grasslands), semi-deserts, and deserts.
These antelopes congregate in herds of 8 to 60 oryx. Newborn calves can run with the herd within minutes of their birth. Oryxes have a life span of about 20 years.
Some people think that the unicorn of legend was based upon the oryx.
Many types of oryxes (including the Arabian oryx and the scimitar-horned oryx) are endangered species, mostly because of overhunting and disease. 
The Oryx is an herbivore (a plant-eater). It eats grasses, shrubs and roots, spending most of its time grazing. Oryx are ruminants; they swallow their food without chewing it. After a while, they regurgitate a partly-digested "cud" which they chew and then swallow for the last time.
This desert animal can go for weeks without water; it gets much of its water from the plants it eats. 

</doc>
<doc id="146044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146044" title="Kyogo Kawaguchi">
Kyogo Kawaguchi

Kyogo Kawaguchi (born October 1, 1974 in Sano City, Tochigi Prefecture, Japan) is a Japan singer-songwriter. 
He is now working towards world peace with "Chikyukyoudai" ("World Siblings"). His notable works include "Sakura". 

</doc>
<doc id="146045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146045" title="I WiSH">
I WiSH

"I WISH" was a Japanese music group. Members were: ai and nao. Ai is the vocal and plays piano. Nao plays piano　and keyboard. They were famous　for "Asueno Tobira", but this group ended in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="146046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146046" title="Dragon Ash">
Dragon Ash


</doc>
<doc id="146048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146048" title="Masaharu Fukuyama">
Masaharu Fukuyama

Masaharu Fukuyama is a Japanese singer and movie and television actor. He is from Nagasaki, Kyūshū. One of his most well-known songs is "Sakurazaka".

</doc>
<doc id="146049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146049" title="Okonomiyaki">
Okonomiyaki

The name of this dish means "cook what you like". "Okonomiyaki" is mainly associated with Kansai or Hiroshima, but is widely available throughout the country.
"Okonomiyaki" is the popular food in Japan. In postwar Hiroshima, "okonomiyaki" was invented to save a few wheat flour and vegetables (for example, cabbage, bean sprout, green onion and so on.) because foods are shortage. It is called ""okonomiyaki "(fried liking foods)" because people made "okonomiyaki" to include their favorite foods in the past.
First, you cook mixed water and wheat flour and shape like a thin circle.
Second, you put cabbage, pork , other toppings and "tempura" bits and turn it over.
Third, you put fried noodles on it.
Fourth, you shape egg like a thin circle and put it below.
Fifth, you turn it over and put sauce and green laver on it.

</doc>
<doc id="146053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146053" title="Ōmisoka">
Ōmisoka

New Year's Eve is called "Omisoka" in Japan. People in Japan often eat "Toshikoshi soba ()”. People eat it with the wish of living a simple and long life next year.

</doc>
<doc id="146054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146054" title="Advent">
Advent

The Season of Advent, which begins on a Sunday about four weeks before Christmas Day, is celebrated by most Christian Churches, as well as some other Christian communities. It is a time for people to prepare themselves for two different things: for the coming of the baby Jesus and Christmas, and for the Second Coming of Jesus, when he shall rule over all the Earth in peace. Not all Christian people remember Advent. Some people use it as a time of fasting, study, meditation and prayer. Special Advent Calendars are made for children, with pictures or treats for each day of Advent. In Germany it is very common to have an advent wreath with 4 candles (mostly red), every advent Sunday one candle more will be lighted so that on Advent 4th all 4 candles are burning and its bright, a symbol for Jesus as the light is coming to us on Christmas.
Generally, Advent is a time when many people are very busy in preparation for Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating, buying food and gifts, writing cards and letters, and cooking the Christmas feast. Some churches use special candles during advent.

</doc>
<doc id="146060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146060" title="Pirog">
Pirog

Pyrih (the plural is "pyrohy") is a Ukrainian pie that can have either a sweet or savory filling. In Russia and Belarus it is called pirog (plural is "pirogi").
Pyrih (pirog) is usually made from yeast-raised dough, but can also be made from shortcrust or puff pastry. Pyrohy or pirogi are full-sized pies, while pyrizhky or pirozhki are smaller-sized pies that can be eaten with one hand.
The standard shape for pyrohy is oblong with tapering ends, but rectangular or circular pyrohy are also common. They can be closed or open-faced with no crust on top (like a tart).
The filling for pyrohy may be sweet and contain cottage cheese, or fruits like apple, plums or various berries. Savory versions may consist of meat, fish, mushrooms, cabbage, buckwheat groats or potato. In Ukrainian and Russian cuisines, pyrohy with a savory filling are traditionally served (like pirozhki) together with borscht, or soup.

</doc>
<doc id="146061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146061" title="Category:Pies">
Category:Pies


</doc>
<doc id="146062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146062" title="Category:Savoury pies">
Category:Savoury pies


</doc>
<doc id="146077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146077" title="Queens' College, Cambridge">
Queens' College, Cambridge

Queens' College is one of the colleges that make up the University of Cambridge in England. It was first founded in 1448 by Margaret of Anjou (the Queen of Henry VI), and refounded in 1465 by Elizabeth Woodville (the Queen of Edward IV). This is why the name of the college is spelt Queens' and not Queen's: it was founded by two queens. 
The "President's Lodge" of Queens' is the oldest building on the river at Cambridge, dating from about 1460.
The college is on both sides of the river Cam. A bridge joins the two parts. This bridge is always called the "Mathematical Bridge". The students call the older part of the college "The Dark Side" and the newer part "The Light Side".
Many people take photographs of the college. There is a story that the bridge was designed and built by Sir Isaac Newton without the use of nuts or bolts. The story says that once some students tried to take the bridge apart and put it back together again, but were unable to do so. That is why they had to put nuts and bolts in which can be seen today. The story is not true. The bridge was built in 1749, after Newton had died. It was never taken apart although it was rebuilt twice.
Stephen Fry is one of many famous people who have studied there.

</doc>
<doc id="146104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146104" title="Peace and Truce of God">
Peace and Truce of God

The Peace of God was a movement begun by bishops in southern France around 990 CE to limit the violence done to property and to the unarmed.
The Truce of God extended the Peace by setting aside certain days of the week when violence was not allowed. Where the Peace of God limited violence against the church and the poor, the Truce of God was about preventing fighting between Christians, especially knights.

</doc>
<doc id="146107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146107" title="Desmoxytes purpurosea">
Desmoxytes purpurosea

The shocking pink dragon millipede (also called the dragon millipede ("Desmoxytes purpurosea") is a millipede which has a bright pink color on its spiny body. It is very toxic. They have glands that release cyanide to protect them from predators.
The millipede has glands that produce hydrogen cyanide to protect it from predators, a fact advertised by its aposematic color. Because it produces cyanide, it smells like almonds.
It is one of a thousand new spcies found in the Greater Mekong region in the last ten years. It can be found at the Tai side of the Mekong river.

</doc>
<doc id="146110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146110" title="Scholarship">
Scholarship

A scholarship is financial help (money) given to someone who wants to study. Scholarships can be given by schools or by universities or colleges or any other institution where people can study or where research needs to be done. It is similar to a bursary.
There are very many kinds of scholarships. Some scholarships will cover all the tuition fees (money that the student needs to pay to study), others may just help towards the tuition fees. Some scholarships may include money for other things such as food and accommodation.
Sometimes the students are expected to do something in return for having a scholarship. They may, for example, be expected to do some particular work after they finish their studies, or they may need to help the institution in some way. Quite often the amount of money a student gets will depend on how much money the family has.
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women says that scholarship must be equally given for girls without discrimination.

</doc>
<doc id="146111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146111" title="Category:Millipedes">
Category:Millipedes


</doc>
<doc id="146112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146112" title="Category:Myriapods">
Category:Myriapods


</doc>
<doc id="146115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146115" title="Great Egret">
Great Egret

The Great Egret (also known an the Common Egret) is a large wading bird found worldwide. 
It is the second-largest member of the heron family in America (second only to the Great Blue Heron). It lives in mudflats, tidal shallows and marshes. It winters in the south down to Colombia. The Great Egret flies with slow wing beats and has a deep, croaking call.
The scientific name of the Great Egret is "Ardea alba" (genus and species).
The Great Egret eats fish, lizards, frogs, crayfish, small rodents, and insects. It often hunts in shallow water, usually impaling the prey on its long, sharp bill.
The Great Egret's nest is a platform of twigs and sticks that is built in trees or on the ground. Females lay 3-5 pale blue-green eggs in each clutch (a set of eggs laid at one time). The incubation period of the eggs is 23–26 days.

</doc>
<doc id="146116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146116" title="Leeds Triennial Festival">
Leeds Triennial Festival

The Leeds Triennial Festival was a festival of music held in the town of Leeds, Yorkshire in England. The festival started in the 19th century at a time when very large choirs were in fashion. Although there is now no festival called the Leeds Triennial Festival the town of Leeds continues to put on music festivals.
On 7 September 1858 Queen Victoria opened the new Town Hall in Leeds. It was a very large building, big enough for an audience of 4000 and a choir of 400 singers. The composer Sterndale Bennett conducted an orchestra and choir at the opening performance.
Although “triennial” means something that happens every three years, the next festival did not happen until 1874. In 1880 the first festival called the Leeds Triennial Festival was conducted by Arthur Sullivan. These festivals were very famous internationally because a lot of famous composers were asked to write new works for choir and to come and conduct them. Composers such as Raff, Dvorak, Massenet, Humperdinck, Parry, Stanford, Elgar and Sullivan himself all wrote new works for the festival.
Later in the 20th century many famous musicians continued to be associated with the festival including Benjamin Britten and Aaron Copland.
Although the last Leeds Triennial Festival took place in 1985 both the Festival Chorus and the Leeds Philharmonic Chorus continue to perform at the Leeds International Concert Season in the Town Hall.

</doc>
<doc id="146118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146118" title="Trimeresurus trigonocephalus">
Trimeresurus trigonocephalus

The Trimeresurus trigonocephalus, commonly known as the ""Sri Lankan Green Pit viper", is a species of venomous Pit vipers found in Sri Lanka. There are no subspecies currently recognized.
Males are smaller than females who can grow to the length of around 130 cm, while males can grow up to the length of 80 cm. They are green in color, and their back has some shades of yellow, they also have black stripes all over them and have a black tail.
The Sri Lankan Green Pit viper is nocturnal and arboreal (it lives in trees), but can sometimes be found on the ground looking for food like frogs, lizards, and small mammals, it also eats birds which it finds in the trees. In the morning Sri Lankan Green Pit vipers can be seen on top of trees so they can warm up their body with the sun rays that hit them.
The Sri Lankan Green Pit viper is viviparous, meaning they give live birth. They give birth to their young during June and July. The have around 5 to 25 young at a time.
They are found in grasslands and rain forests of Sri Lanka
The Sri Lankan Green Pit viper is also known as the "Pala Polonga" and the "Green Pit viper"".
The venom of the Sri Lankan Green Pit viper is hemotoxic. The bite of a Sri Lakan Green Pit viper is very painful, when someone is bitten by a Sri Lankan Green Pit viper the bitten area swells up, and the pain may last for a few days. The cells of living tissue die, blisters occur, and ptosis and lymphadenopathy take place. However, there have been no reports on deaths.

</doc>
<doc id="146121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146121" title="Venomous snake">
Venomous snake

A venomous snake is a snake that uses venom(poison) on prey to stop them and for self-defense.
Over 600 species are known to be venomous -- about a quarter of all snake species.

</doc>
<doc id="146126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146126" title="Yoxall">
Yoxall

Yoxall is a town in Staffordshire, England, UK. The river Swabourne flows through the town and it is close to the A515 road. 

</doc>
<doc id="146129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146129" title="Trimeresurus jerdonii">
Trimeresurus jerdonii

Trimeresurus jerdonii is a venomous pitviper species found in India (Assam), Burma, Tibet, China and Vietnam. Three subspecies are currently recognized, including this one.
Found from Assam in India, through northern Burma to Tibet, China (Hupeh, Szechwan and Yunnan) and Vietnam. The type locality given is "Khasi Hills, India."
Males grow to a maximum total length of 835 mm with a tail length of 140 mm; females 990 mm with a tail length of females 160 mm.

</doc>
<doc id="146139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146139" title="AXXo">
AXXo

aXXo is the Internet alias of an individual or group, who has been allegedly harassed by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) for copyright infringement. He is famous for converting DVD movies into computer files that can be uploaded into the Internet and be downloaded by other people for free.

</doc>
<doc id="146140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146140" title="Ernest Moeran">
Ernest Moeran

Ernest Moeran (born Heston, Middlesex, England, 31 December 1894; died 1 December 1950) was an English composer.
Moeran (pronounce: “MOOR-an”) was born in Heston, to the west of London. His father was an Irish clergyman. Ernest spent most of his childhood living on the coast of Norfolk. He learned to play the violin and the piano. At first he was taught at home by a governess. When he was ten he went to school. In 1908, he went to Uppingham School where he spent five years. When he left school in 1913 he started to study piano and composition at the Royal College of Music with Charles Villiers Stanford.
Moeran’s studies at the Royal College of Music were interrupted after 18 months because of the start of World War I. He joined the army as a despatch rider but he was soon badly injured in the head and could no longer fight in the army. After the war he did some music teaching, but then he started to study music again. His teacher this time was John Ireland who had been a pupil of Moeran’s earlier teacher Stanford.
After these studies his music started to be performed a lot. His "First Rhapsody" for orchestra was performed several times, including in 1924 by the Hallé Orchestra conducted by Hamilton Harty. He was asked to compose a symphony for the Hallé Orchestra, but he preferred to write shorter pieces, especially chamber music and piano music. In 1931 he wrote a "String Trio" which is one of his best works. 
Moeran became interested in folk music. He liked to go to country pubs and listen to the people singing there. He collected about 150 folk songs in Norfolk and Suffolk and made many arrangements of them.
By the mid-1920s, Moeran had become close friends with Peter Warlock. They lived together and often went out drinking together. Moeran gradually became an alcoholic.
In 1945, after Warlock had died, Moeran married the cellist Peers Coetmore. The marriage was not very happy although it helped Moeran to compose some of his best pieces: the "Cello Concerto" and "Cello Sonata".
Moeran was found drowned in the River Kenmare. At first people thought he had committed suicide but then it was found that he had had a heart attack and died before he fell into the water.
Moeran’s music is influenced by folk song. His harmonies are often like those of Delius. He was also influenced by Vaughan Williams, Holst, Bax, John Ireland and Peter Warlock. For many years he concentrated on piano music, songs and chamber music, but in his later years he wrote larger works such as the Symphony in G minor (1934-7) and his Concertos for the Violin and the Cello.

</doc>
<doc id="146141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146141" title="Despatch rider">
Despatch rider

A despatch rider is someone in the army who delivers messages ("despatch" or "dispatch" means "to send someone or something off on a journey"). A despatch rider either rides a horse or a motorcycle.
Despatch riders were used by armies to send messages between headquarters and the fighting soldiers. They might be delivering reports, but sometimes they took urgent messages which were often secret. It was a very dangerous job. Travelling between the lines of fighting armies the despatch rider could easily be blown up by a mine, shot by gunfire, or captured by the enemy.
Despatch riders always used to ride on horseback. In the 20th century they usually rode motorcycles. They were used a lot in World War I and even in World War II, although by the end of World War II electronic communications had improved so that despatch riders were rarer.

</doc>
<doc id="146147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146147" title="The Ting Tings">
The Ting Tings

The Ting Tings are an English duo Pop-Retro rock indie band formed in England in 2004. They are famous for the studio album "We Started Nothing" and famous for the hit pop singles "Shut Up and Let Me Go", "Great DJ", "That's Not My Name", and "Be The One". The pop band is only a 2 member band with Katie White and Jules De Martino. The band members met whilst at Leeds University.

</doc>
<doc id="146152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146152" title="We Started Nothing">
We Started Nothing

We Started Nothing is an album recorded by Pop duo The Ting Tings. Singles include "Shut Up and Let Me Go", and "Be The One". The studio album was released May 2008. The album was also released as a limited edition LP on red vinyl limited to 2,000 copies. 

</doc>
<doc id="146153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146153" title="Shut Up and Let Me Go">
Shut Up and Let Me Go

Shut Up and Let Me Go (aka: Shut Up & Let Me Go) is the third single off the studio album "We Started Nothing" by The Ting Tings. The song was released in the United Kingdom on July 21st of 2008, and was the follow-up to the number one hit single "That's Not My Name". The song was added to the coveted A-list of BBC Radio 1's playlist, and has received a substantial amount of airplay during the day on the station. The single peaked at number six in both the UK Singles Chart and the UK Download Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="146160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146160" title="Wikipedia:WikiCup/2009 Nations/Rules">
Wikipedia:WikiCup/2009 Nations/Rules

Welcome to the Rules page of the Nations' Cup!
The Wikipedia Nations' Cup is an effort to get editors working together, increase productivity, and, most importantly, have fun while editing. As such, the rules outlined below are to be strictly followed.

</doc>
<doc id="146169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146169" title="1987 Sino-Indian skirmish">
1987 Sino-Indian skirmish

The 1987 Sino-Indian skirmish occurred at Sumdorong Chu Valley. This was the second conflict between the PRC and India, with the previous one taking place exactly a quarter of a century earlier.

</doc>
<doc id="146182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146182" title="Longbridge Plant">
Longbridge Plant

Longbridge Plant is an automobile plant in Longbridge, Birmingham, West Midlands, England. Most of it was demolished in 2005 and 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="146183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146183" title="Curzon Street railway station">
Curzon Street railway station

Curzon Street railway station is a former railroad station in Birmingham, United Kingdom. It opened in 1838 and became a goods yard in 1854. 

</doc>
<doc id="146185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146185" title="Holography">
Holography

Holography is a method that uses the wave character of light, which depicts an exact description that goes beyond the options of the classic photography. A "hologram" is a 3-dimensional (3-D) picture made from a laser. When a person looking at it moves, the hologram changes slightly with the movement to make it look as if the picture was 3-D.
Holograms are made with light that is flashed onto the scene, then something to write or draw the hologram on, almost like how photos are made. To make a hologram and not a photo, some of the light (a "reference beam") has to go right onto the thing that the hologram is being written on. The light has to be a laser because lasers are more accurate and have a wavelength that doesn't change, like the wavelength of other light sources like lightbulbs do. To stop other light from messing the hologram up, holograms are usually taken in the darkness.
Holograms might be easier to explain if compared to photos. In contrast to photography, holography not only records the intensity of light, but also its difference of phase. All pieces of information reflected by the object, are recorded.
In holography you basically work with two (rather three) waves, the so called reference wave (that goes on to the plate) and the exposure wave (object wave(which comes from the object)). With the reference wave it is possible to save the phase information in the form of a light-dark model on a film. The object wave and reference wave must have the same wave length in order to save the phase information.
The most famous person linked to the history of holography is the physician Dennis Gábor, the inventor of the hologram.
In fact his discovery in 1947, which demonstrated the highlight of a long development, was not supposed to display three-dimensional objects, but to improve the resolving capacity of microscopes.
For a hologram you need a laser beam, that gets enlarged by a dispersing lens and goes through a semi penetrable mirror. Only a piece of this laser beam goes through the mirror. Then this beam becomes the reference wave which is recorded on the film. The other piece of the laser beam will be reflected on the mirror and runs as the so called exposure wave at the object.The object reflects this wave on the film.
The process of creating a hologram is nearly identical to photography through diverse chemicals.
To look at a hologram just recorded, you have to light the film with the reference wave. These waves are reflected on the film (hologram) and create (within the proper angle of sight) a virtual picture of the recorded object.
Nowadays industries use holograms more often to measure. In the automotive engineering the autobody is measured by holography techniques for bulges and vibration characteristics. An example of this method is the phase-shift-method. 
First you take a hologram from the ground level state of the object, then overload the object through heat or mechanical pressure. By covering the original hologram and the modified hologram, interference fringes occur. These interference fringes can be evaluated quantitatively and give information about the deformation. So you can measure tiny terminal expansions or vibrations in mechanical systems. Therefore you need two reference waves that are shifted to each other.
There are holographic storages for analog pictures and digital data. Digital information will be affiliated by a two-dimensional bit-pattern.

</doc>
<doc id="146190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146190" title="Dirty paper coding">
Dirty paper coding

In telecommunications, dirty paper coding (DPC) is a good way to send digital data through a channel that is subject to some interference that is known to the sender. The sender does precoding of the data so as to cancel the effect of the interference.
Costa asked the following question:
When Costa asked his question, the Shannon–Hartley theorem (and the more general noisy-channel coding theorem) was well known.
The Shannon–Hartley theorem tells us that, all else being equal, a paper sent along a path that picks up less dirt can reliably deliver more information than another paper sent along a path that picks up more dirt.
People have also thought up many ways of dealing with such dirt added after the message is written—see error detection and correction for details.
Most people expected that the same thing would happen when dirt is added to the paper before the message was written—the more dirt, the less information can be reliably sent.
In 1983, Costa showed the surprising result that we can send just as much information on such a dirty piece of paper as we can when writing on a clean sheet of paper, and gave a way to get that capacity.
A dirty paper code is a way for the writer to adapt his message to the dirt already on the paper.
The writer and the reader agree ahead of time on which dirty paper code they will use for the messages.
People have thought up several dirty paper codes, including Costa precoding (1983), Tomlinson-Harashima precoding (1971) and the vector perturbation technique of Hochwald et al. (2005).
A similar problem called "writing on dirty tape (WDT)" is more complicated.
As of 2005, the capacity computation problem and the capacity-achieving
problem for writing on dirty tape are unsolved
"Writing on wet paper" is a related problem in steganography
In a wireless network, often a transmitter has many different messages, and each one needs to be sent to a different person.
The sum-rate capacity of a system that transmits all the messages at the same time—and uses dirty-paper codes to reduce the interference between messages—can be many times the sum-rate capacity of a similar system that only sends one message at a time (TDMA).
Any one receiver is only concerned with the messages for that receiver—all the other messages the transmitter is simultaneously sending to everyone else are—to that receiver—irrelevant noise that only interferes with the desired message.
The "dirty paper" story can be seen as a parable for wireless communication.
Recently, there has been interest in DPC as a possible solution to optimize the efficiency of wireless networks, in particular multiuser MIMO networks and into an interference aware coding technique for dynamic wireless networks.
People doing "informed digital watermarking" use dirty paper codes, using this analogy:

</doc>
<doc id="146218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146218" title="Klamath River">
Klamath River

The Klamath River flows through Oregon and northern California in the United States. It is long. The river empties into the Pacific Ocean.
The Klamath is the second largest river in California after the Sacramento River.

</doc>
<doc id="146225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146225" title="Bandai">
Bandai

Bandai Co., Ltd. is a Japanese company that makes toys and video games. It is the third largest toy maker in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="146228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146228" title="Battle, East Sussex">
Battle, East Sussex

Battle is a town in East Sussex, England, UK. It is known as this because it was the place where the Battle of Hastings was fought.

</doc>
<doc id="146259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146259" title="John Key">
John Key

John Phillip Key (born 9 August 1961) is the 38th and current Prime Minister of New Zealand and leader of the New Zealand National Party.
John Key entered the New Zealand Parliament in 2002 representing the north-west Auckland area of Helensville as a National MP, a seat that he still holds. In 2006 he succeeded Don Brash as the National Party leader in 2006. Key led his party to victory in the November 2008 general election.
On 5 December 2016, Key resigned as prime minister and as party leader. Bill English soon replaced Key as prime minister and party leader.
Key was born in Auckland, New Zealand, to George Key and Ruth Key. His father, who was from the UK, died of a heart attack in 1967. Key and his two sisters were raised in a state house in Christchurch by his mother.
He attended Burnside High School, and earned a Bachelor of Commerce degree in accounting from the University of Canterbury in 1981. He has attended management studies courses at Harvard University, although he did not receive a degree from this institution.
Key met his wife Bronagh when they were both students at Burnside High School. They married in 1984. She is currently full-time mother of their two children, Stephie and Max.
In 1995, he joined Merrill Lynch as head of Asian foreign exchange in Singapore. That same year he was promoted to Merrill's global head of foreign exchange, based in London, where he may have earned around US$2.25 million a year including bonuses, which is about NZ$5 million at 2001 exchange rates. Some co-workers called him "the smiling assassin" for maintaining his usual cheerfulness while sacking dozens (some say hundreds) of staff after heavy losses from the 1998 Russian financial crisis. He was a member of the Foreign Exchange Committee of the New York Federal Reserve Bank from 1999 to 2001.
Key became Prime Minister following the general election on 8 November 2008 which ended the Labour-led government of nine years under Helen Clark. The National Party, promoting a policy of "change", won 45% of the party vote and 59 of the 122 seats in Parliament, a big margin over the Labour Party which won 43 seats.
Key was sworn in as Prime Minister on 19 November 2008 along with his new cabinet. His first international outing as Prime Minister was the 20th APEC meeting in Peru the following day.
Key announced he will step down from the role of Prime Minister and leader of the National Party effective 12 December 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="146266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146266" title="List of people from Dunedin">
List of people from Dunedin

The New Zealand city of Dunedin is noted for producing a large number of famous people. Many of these are natives of the city; others travelled to Dunedin to be educated at the University of Otago.

</doc>
<doc id="146268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146268" title="Peter Warlock">
Peter Warlock

Peter Warlock (born London, 30 October 1894; died London, 17 December 1930), was an English composer. “Peter Warlock” was not his real name. His real name was Philip Heseltine. He was also a music critic. When he wrote about music he used his real name, but when he composed music he used the pseudonym (borrowed name) "Peter Warlock", which is the name by which he is usually remembered today.
Philip Heseltine did not come from a musical family. When he was two years old his father died. His mother married again and went back to live in Wales, where she came from. Philip went to school at Eton College.
He was still a teenager when he was introduced to the composer Delius, who lived in France. They became good friends and Philip made piano arrangements of some of Delius’s music. Later he wrote a book about Delius. He studied in Germany for a time, and then at Oxford where he studied classics. He learned about music by teaching himself. He did not fight in World War I. He was a conscientious objector, but also, his health was not good enough for him to be in the army.
He spent most of his life in London, but he did visit Ireland for a year, and also spent three years with his mother in Wales, and four years in Kent where he lived with Ernest Moeran. Heseltine and Moeran often got drunk together. He became friends with the composer Bernard van Dieren whose music influenced him a lot. He also liked poetry from the time of Queen Elizabeth I.
He died in his apartment from gas poisoning. It is not certain whether it was suicide, but he did let his cat out before he turned on the gas.
His music, written under the name of Peter Warlock, often has links with his literary writings. Some of the best works he wrote are his songs, especially the song-cycle "The Curlew", which has lyrics from poems by W. B. Yeats. One of his most popular works is the "Capriol Suite" for string orchestra.
Warlock wrote many carols, such as "Adam Lay Ybounden", "Tyrley Tyrlow", and "Bethlehem Down".
Warlock was not influenced by folksong like many other English composers of the time. He liked many different styles, including Renaissance music and the music of Bartók whom he met. 

</doc>
<doc id="146271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146271" title="Land mine">
Land mine

A land mine (sometimes just called a "mine") is a weapon that is put on the ground or just underneath the ground so that it explodes when a person or vehicle goes by. They are called "mines" because people who put them there dig a hole in the ground (like miners who dig for coal etc.). Many people can be killed by mines, including innocent people. Sometimes mines can lie in the ground for years after a war has ended and people get killed or badly injured.
There are different types of land mines. Anti-vehicle mines are against vehicles. Infantry mines are used against foot soldiers. 

</doc>
<doc id="146275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146275" title="Charles Wood">
Charles Wood

Charles Wood (born Armagh, 15 June 1866; died Cambridge, 12 July 1926) was an Irish composer and teacher.
Charles Wood was born in Armagh, Ireland. His father sang in the Cathedral choir. Charles had music lessons from the cathedral organist, then he went to the Royal College of Music where he studied composition with C.V.Stanford and Hubert Parry. He also learned to play the horn and piano. After four years he went to Selwyn College, Cambridge, at first to study, then to teach harmony and counterpoint. In 1889 he got a teaching job at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. Soon he became their first Director of Music and Organist. When Stanford died, Wood became Professor of Music at Cambridge.
Wood is mainly remembered today for his Anglican church music. He wrote music for the Communion Service and service settings of the Magnificat and Nunc dimittis. These are often sung today in cathedrals and churches. He wrote many fine anthems including "O thou, the central orb". In Cambridge he is remembered for the chimes he wrote for the clocks of Gonville and Caius College.
His pupils included Ralph Vaughan Williams at Cambridge and Herbert Howells at the Royal College of Music.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="146276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146276" title="Category:Irish composers">
Category:Irish composers


</doc>
<doc id="146280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146280" title="Arthur Bliss">
Arthur Bliss

Sir Arthur Bliss CH KCVO (London, 2 August 1891; died London, 27 March 1975) was a British composer (a person who writes music). When he started composing, his music sounded very modern and harsh. As he got older he changed his style and wrote more Romantic music in the style of English composer Edward Elgar. For more than twenty years he was Master of the Queen's Music.
His father was American, his mother was English. He went to school at Rugby. He went to Cambridge University where he studied with Irish composer Charles Wood. Wood also taught the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams. Bliss got to know Elgar whose music influenced him very much.
For a short time he learned music from Charles Villiers Stanford at the Royal College of Music. During World War I he served in the army. 
After the war he started to play his music in public. These compositions show the influence of Stravinsky, Ravel and Les Six. His music even sounded jazzy. After a few years his music became more Romantic. Elgar asked him to write something for the Three Choirs Festival in 1922. The piece he composed was his "Colour Symphony" in which he tries to describe colours in music.
During the 1920s his music became more traditional. He wrote a lot of music for movies including music for the movie "Things to Come" (H.G.Wells). He loved the theatre and composed music for the ballets "Checkmate" and "Miracle in the Gorbals". One of his best works is the choral symphony "Morning Heroes" (1930). This was written to remember those who were killed in World War I.
When World War II started he was in the USA. He stayed there and taught at Berkeley, California until 1941. Then he returned to England. For a time he was Director of Music of the BBC. He wrote an opera "The Olympians". In 1953 he was made Master of the Queen's Music. He kept that position until his death, writing many pieces of music for official royal occasions. 
He was given many honours, including the Companion of Honour and the Royal Victorian Order. 
In his later years he composed several works for orchestra as well as for choirs.
He died on 27 March 1975. His wife, Gertrude died on 21 November 2008 at the age of 104.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="146289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146289" title="Plumbing">
Plumbing

Plumbing (which comes from the Latin word "plumbum", which means lead, as pipes were once made from lead) is the job of working with pipes, tubing and plumbing fixtures for drinking water systems and getting rid of waste. A plumber is someone who fixes or puts in piping systems, plumbing fixtures and equipment such as water heaters. Many plumbers are construction workers. The plumbing industry is an important part of every developed economy because people need clean water and safe ways to move and store waste.
Plumbing also refers to a system of pipes and fixtures put in a building to move water and the get rid of waste that is in water. Plumbing is different from water and sewage systems because plumbing system serves one building, while water and sewage systems serve a group of buildings or a city.
Plumbing was very rare until modern cities grew in the 19th century. At about the same time, public health leaders began wanting better systems to get rid of waste. Before this, people got rid of waste by collecting it and dumping it onto the ground or into rivers. However, there were some plumbing pipes in the city settlements of the Indus Valley Civilization by 2700 B.C. Plumbing was also used during the ancient civilizations such as the Greek, Roman, Persian, Indian, and Chinese civilizations as they built public baths and needed drinking water, and somewhere to drain waste. The Romans used pipe inscriptions to stop people from stealing water. 
These systems did not improve much over the years. There were almost no improvements from the time of the Roman aqueducts and lead pipes until the 19th century. Eventually the development of separate, underground water and sewage systems got rid of open sewage ditches and cesspools. Most large cities today send solid wastes through pipes to sewage treatment plants. Treatment separates water from waste and makes the water more pure before it goes into streams or other bodies of water. Most places stopped using lead for drinking water after World War II because of the dangers of lead poisoning. At this time, copper piping was started because it was safer than using lead pipes.
Water systems in ancient times used gravity to move water. They used pipes or channels usually made of clay, lead, bamboo or stone. Today, water-supply systems use a network of high-pressure pumps, and pipes are now made of copper, brass, plastic, or other nontoxic material. Drain and vent lines are made of plastic, steel, cast-iron, and lead. Lead is not used in pipes today because it can be poisonous.
The 'straight' sections of plumbing systems are of pipe or tube. A pipe is usually made by casting or welding, where a tube is made through extrusion. Pipe usually has thicker walls and may be threaded or welded, where tubes have thinner walls, and needs special joining techniques such as 'brazing', 'compression fitting', 'crimping', or for plastics, 'solvent welding'.
As well as the straight pipe or tubing, many fittings are required in plumbing systems, such as valves, elbows, tees, and unions.
Plumbing fixtures are designed for the people who use the water. Some examples of fixtures include water closets (also known as toilets), urinals, bidets, showers, bathtubs, utility and kitchen sinks, drinking fountains, ice makers, humidifiers, air washers, fountains, and eye wash stations.
Much of the plumbing work in places where many people live is done under government rules. Putting in plumbing and fixing plumbnig generally must be done according to plumbing and building codes to protect the people who live or work in the buildings.

</doc>
<doc id="146295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146295" title="Copepod">
Copepod

Copepods (meaning "oar feet") are small, shrimp-like crustaceans that swim in seas, lakes, and ponds. Copepods are very important in the food web, and many animals eat them.
There are 10 orders of copepods and over 4500 species; a few orders are free-swimming, but many are parasites (of fish). The free-swimming copepods move through the water in jerky motions by moving their swimming legs. 

</doc>
<doc id="146308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146308" title="Donegal">
Donegal

Donegal is a town in County Donegal, Republic of Ireland. 
There are many sandy beaches in the area round Donegal and the town is used as a base for hill-walking in the nearby Bluestack Mountains. Traditionally the largest employer in the town has been Magee of Donegal, makers of tweed garments.

</doc>
<doc id="146310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146310" title="Dingle">
Dingle

Dingle is a town in County Kerry, Republic of Ireland. It has a large natural harbour.

</doc>
<doc id="146320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146320" title="Young, New South Wales">
Young, New South Wales

Young is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is the centre of Young Shire. It is on the Olympic Highway. It is about 2 hours drive from Canberra. Young is in a valley surrounded by hills. In 2001 there were 6,821 people living in Young. 
Young is known as the Cherry Capital Of Australia and every year hosts the National Cherry Festival.
 The indigenous people of the district were members of the Burrowmunditory tribe, part of the Wiradjuri people.
James White was the first European settler in the area. He started Burrangong Station (farm) in 1826 by taking an area of 100 square miles.
Gold was found in the area in 1860. Until that time the area was called Lambing Flat. This was an area where sheep were grazed before the gold rush. The town was officially listed in 1861. About 470,000 ounces of gold were sent by the armed gold escort from the goldfields. Up to 20,000 miners were digging for gold including about 2,000 Chinese miners.
From November 1860 through to June 1861 European miners attacked Chinese gold miners in the area. This is now known as the Lambing Flat riots. As gold became harder to find, European miners got upset that the Chinese miners were still finding gold. Many Chinese miners were attacked, robbed and killed. They were chased off the goldfields. Eventually the riots were stopped and the Chinese miners had their mining areas given back. The New South Wales Parliament passed the Chinese Immigration Bill. This put a limit on the number of Chinese that could come to New South Wales on any ship. They also had to pay a tax to come New South Wales.
In 1889 Young was the first country town in Australia to have electricity for the streets and houses. Young was the first Local Government Area to start a country school bus system in New South Wales
There are seven schools in Young:
Young Shire Council has started these gardens next to Chinaman’s Dam. This is an old railway dam about 4 km south of Young. They are made to create a peaceful feeling like the Japanese garden at Cowra.
Chinaman’s Dam was built in the 1860s by Dutch brothers, Herman and John Tiedeman. They used the water for the sluicing of their Victoria Hill gold claims. In the 1870s, the brothers sold the area, including the dam, to a Chinese group who worked the site. It is in a small gully called Pitstone on Sawpit Gully. 
In 1882 the NSW government started to build the first part of the Blayney to Demondrille railway line. To provide water for the steam trains, they decided to use the dam and pump water from it to a tank, known as Young Tank, at the 246 mile post. It is not known whether the railways improved the old dam or built a new one.
From 1885 to 1901, trains stopped at Young Tank to refill with water. In 1901, trains were able to get water at Young Railway Station. The supply of water came from Chinaman’s Dam. The size of the dam was enlarged in 1911 to hold about 2 million gallons.
The dam was a popular spot for swimming. 
When the town water supply was connected to the Burrinjuck Dam, the railways stopped using Chinaman’s Dam. In 1937 the area turned into a 36 acre park. The Shire Council looks after the gardens. The dam has since been made bigger.

</doc>
<doc id="146325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146325" title="Ammunition">
Ammunition

Ammunition, often called ammo, comes from the French word "la munition". At first it meant all items used for war. This was from the Latin word "munire" (to provide). It now is used only for bullets and other projectiles that are thrown at the enemy by guns, and the gunpowder or other propellant that throws the projectiles. The group word for all types of ammunition is munitions. This means any explosive thng that can be used in combat and includes bombs, missiles, warheads, and mines (landmines, naval mines, and claymore mines). These are made in munitions factories. 
Ammunition is mainly used to attack a target. Ammunition can also include flares and incendaries - chemicals that start fires. Since the making of the cartridge, ammunition has come to mean the putting of a projectile - the item that is sent to hit the target, and its propellant - the chemical that creates the force, into a single package. 
Ammmunition is a complex subject. It covers use of fire to a hit target, use of weapons by people, explosives and propellants, cartridges, high explosive projectiles (HE), warheads, special shells to attack armour and aircraft, carrier projectiles, fuses, mortar ammunition, small arms (revolver and pistol) ammunition, grenades, mines, flares, improved conventional munitions, and computer guided munition.

</doc>
<doc id="146333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146333" title="Emirate">
Emirate

An emirate is a political territory that is ruled by an emir, a dynastic Arab Monarch. The word emirate or amirate comes from , "Imaarah" ; plural: إمارات, "Imaraat". The United Arab Emirates is a federal state of seven federal emirates, each administered by a hereditary emir, these seven elect the federation's President and Prime Minister. Most emirates have either disappeared or become part of a larger modern state, some changed their rulers' title, e.g. to Malik (Arabic for King) or Sultan. Therefore true emirate-states have become rare. 
In Arabic the term can be generalized to mean any province of a country that is administered by a member of the ruling class, especially of a member of the royal family, as in Saudi Arabian governorates.

</doc>
<doc id="146343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146343" title="Mike Busniuk">
Mike Busniuk

Mike Busniuk (born December 13, 1951 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is the younger brother of Ron Busniuk, who played for the Buffalo Sabres.

</doc>
<doc id="146347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146347" title="Glasgow Subway">
Glasgow Subway

The Glasgow Subway is a subway system serving Glasgow, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146348" title="Tyne and Wear Metro">
Tyne and Wear Metro

Tyne and Wear Metro is a rapid transit in Newcastle upon Tyne, Gateshead, South Tyneside, North Tyneside and Sunderland in United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="146349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146349" title="Sydney White">
Sydney White

Sydney Rae White (born 30 November 1991) is an English actress and singer.
Sydney was born in London on 30 November 1991. She first attended Broomfield House School in Kew. She got her parents to take her to the children's agency Young'uns. After her first audition she was offered the role of Cosette in "Les Misérables". The next year she had four performances per week at London's Palace Theatre while still doing schoolwork. Sydney then auditioned for the Sylvia Young Theatre School. She was accepted and started in September 2002.
Sydney lives in West London with her parents, two older brothers (Paul and Adam) and two younger brothers (Cameron and Spike). She also has a dog called Digger. She won a LAMDA award in 2003. She currently stars in the CBBC programme "Young Dracula". She plays one of the main characters, Erin Noble.
"Sun goes down" (2011)

</doc>
<doc id="146354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146354" title="Judicial nullification">
Judicial nullification

Judicial nullification is a right of a judges to nullify (make invalid) a law if they feel it is too harsh in a particular situation where it is being applied. During the Constitutional Convention many, including George Mason, Elbridge Gerry and James Wilson felt the courts could decide if a law was unconstitutional, and if so, refuse to enforce it. Other founding fathers including John Francis Mercer, Gouverneur Morris and John Dickinson argued against allowing judges to have that power. The issue was left unanswered. However, when deciding that a new law needed the approval of the president, all attempts to have the judiciary approve new laws were soundly defeated. 
Judicial Nullification is sometimes used to mean jury nullification. However, in most uses it means nullifying a law, legal code or statute by a member of the judiciary.
In 2011 the Supreme Court made a ruling that, in essence, says lower court judges can ignore the law. There were three petitions before the Court asking if federal courts need to be stopped from ignoring laws, rules and facts. The Supreme Court refused to grant "certiorari" (a writ seeking judicial review of a matter). In other words, the Court refused to consider the three petitions.

</doc>
<doc id="146356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146356" title="Category:Governors of New South Wales">
Category:Governors of New South Wales


</doc>
<doc id="146363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146363" title="Emir">
Emir

Emir (; female: '; emira; (Persian and Urdu: ') "commander" or "general", also "prince"; also transliterated as amir, aamir or ameer) is a high title of nobility or office. It is used throughout the Arab world and historically in some Turkic states and Afghanistan. Emirs are usually considered high-ranking sheiks, but in monarchical states the term is also used for princes; then "emirate" means more or less the same as principality in this context.
Emir is used also as a name in Turkey like Emir Niego and Emir Sevinc. 
"Emir" is the most common spelling in English and many other languages (for example, United Arab Emirates). The spelling "amir", that is closer to the original Arabic, is more common for its compounds (e.g., admiral) and in individual names. 

</doc>
<doc id="146365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146365" title="Category:Perth, Western Australia">
Category:Perth, Western Australia

This category is for articles dealing with the city of Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="146368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146368" title="UTC+8">
UTC+8

UTC+8 is the timezone for:

</doc>
<doc id="146371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146371" title="Launceston, Tasmania">
Launceston, Tasmania

Launceston is a city in Australia. It is the second biggest city in the state of Tasmania. It has about 100,000 people. It is at the place where the North Esk, South Esk and Tamar Rivers meet. It was founded in 1806.

</doc>
<doc id="146374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146374" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Tharnton345 3">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Tharnton345 3

"Ended: December 19, 2008" by at 22:55, 19 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello. I think I am just ready to become and Admin. I have created many pages and know all about reverting Vandalism. 20:00, 18 December 2008 (UTC)
"Candidate's acceptance:I accept. 20:00, 18 December 2008 (UTC)"
? – () 06:41, 19 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="146379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146379" title="Governess">
Governess

A governess is a female person who works for a family, teaching the children in their home. She is not like a nanny who looks after them all day, dressing them etc. The governess's job is to be their teacher. She saw to their discipline and early education. Often girls received all their education from their governess (or sometimes a tutor), though boys usually went away to boarding school before their teen years, and then some went on to college.
Very few children nowadays have a governess, but it was quite common in the families of rich people until around the beginning of the 20th century. In England quite a lot of young children who lived in the country, a long way from good schools, had a governess. When the boys were old enough they were sent away to a boarding school.
Governesses taught basic skills such as Reading, Writing and Arithmetic. They may also have taught other skills such as French, piano playing and drawing or painting. Sometimes other teachers might be 
A governess was not a household worker, but she was not treated like a member of the family either. This meant that they were often quite lonely, and they usually ate their meals alone. For girls from a middle class background who were not married it was one of the only ways of earning a living. When the children she taught (her "charges") grew up, she would have to find a new job.
Novels of the time were usually about rich families, and a governess often comes into the story, e.g. in Charlotte Brontë's "Jane Eyre" or Anne Brontë's "Agnes Grey". Maria, the main character in "The Sound of Music", leaves the convent and becomes a governess to the children of the von Trapp family.

</doc>
<doc id="146380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146380" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/QandA/User:Shapiros10">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/QandA/User:Shapiros10

Hello again for another exciting QandA column! This time I interview ! Let's see how he gets on...
----
Look out for other QandA interviews in the future! If you want to take part, message me on my talk page!

</doc>
<doc id="146385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146385" title="Confederation of the Rhine">
Confederation of the Rhine

The Confederation of the Rhine was a client state of First French Empire. It existed from 1806 through 1813. Its ruler was a Protector, who was Napoleon I of France. It was one of the successors of Holy Roman Empire and one of the predecessors of German Confederation.

</doc>
<doc id="146386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146386" title="Constant Lambert">
Constant Lambert

Constant Lambert (born London, 23 August 1905; died London, 21 August 1951) was a British composer and conductor.
Lambert’s father was the painter George Washington Lambert who had come to England from Australia. Lambert was often ill when he was a child. He went to school at Christ's Hospital and won a scholarship to the Royal College of Music. He soon became interested in French and Russian music. He became friends with other famous people including the Sitwell family, William Walton, Philip Heseltine and Bernard van Dieren. He and Edith Sitwell were the reciters at a performance of Walton’s "Façade".
Lambert was a prodigy: he was composing music for orchestra when he was only 13, and when he was 20 he was asked to write a ballet for Serge Diaghilev's world-famous Ballets Russes ("Romeo and Juliet"). 
He soon became very famous. His best known work is "The Rio Grande" for piano solo, chorus and orchestra. It has a mixture of musical styles: jazz, habaneras and the influence of Delius and Duke Ellington.
During the 1930s he performed a lot as a conductor with the Vic-Wells Ballet (later the Royal Ballet), but he stopped composing music. Lambert thought he had failed as a composer, and only finished two more big works in the last sixteen years of his life. He continued conducting, and appeared at Covent Garden and in BBC broadcasts, and travelled to Europe and America conducting ballets. He was an excellent ballet conductor and helped the dancers to give their best performance.
During the war he became ill. He refused to see a doctor. He was working very hard and also drinking a lot.
Lambert liked jazz and thought it was an important influence on popular culture of the time. He wrote a book about this, called "Music Ho!" (1934). The book is widely read today, although it shows a very personal approach to music.
Lambert was married twice. His first marriage was to Florence Kaye. He later married Isabel Nichols, an artist, in 1947. After Constant Lambert's death, Isabel married the composer Alan Rawsthorne. 
Lambert died on 21 August 1951. He had pneumonia and it was also found that he had diabetes made worse by alcoholism. 

</doc>
<doc id="146389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146389" title="Kensington, Calgary">
Kensington, Calgary

Kensington is a neighborhood in Calgary, Alberta. It is around the intersection of Kensington Road and 10th St. NW.
The neighborhood hosts "Christmas in Kensington Village" in December, the Sun and Salsa Festival in July, as well as the "Bizarre Bikes & Bazaar" in May.
Kensington is home to the Calgary Kookaburras Australian rules football club.

</doc>
<doc id="146390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146390" title="Samuel Coleridge-Taylor">
Samuel Coleridge-Taylor

Samuel Coleridge-Taylor (born London, 15 August 1875; died Croydon, 1 September 1912) was an English composer.
Coleridge-Taylor was born in Holborn, London. His black father was a doctor from Sierra Leone, his mother was English. His parents were not married. The father went back to Africa by February 1875. He had the job of coroner for the British Empire in the Gambia in the late 1890s. He did not know anything about his son’s existence.
Coleridge-Taylor was brought up in Croydon . He studied the violin at the Royal College of Music and composition with Charles Villiers Stanford. In 1899 he married Jessie Walmisley who had been a student with him at the RCM. Her parents did not want her to be married to someone of mixed race. The couple had a son, Hiawatha (1900-1980) and a daughter, Avril, born Gwendolyn (1903-1998).
Soon Coleridge-Taylor became known as a composer. Edward Elgar helped him get one of his pieces performed at the Three Choirs Festival. Two months later Stanford conducted the cantata "Hiawatha’s Wedding Feast", the piece for which he is best remembered. He toured the United States in 1904. This made him even more interested in finding out about his racial heritage. He wanted to do for African music what Johannes Brahms had done for Hungarian music and Antonín Dvořák for Bohemian music. He had met the American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar in London and set some of his poems to music. Several people encouraged him to learn more about his heritage.
Coleridge-Taylor was a shy man, but he was a very good conductor. He was often asked to adjudicate at music festivals.
Coleridge-Taylor was 37 when he died of pneumonia. His widow hardly had any money, but King George V gave her a pension of GB£100, which shows how popular Coleridge-Taylor had been as a composer. A memorial concert was held later in 1912 at the Royal Albert Hall and gathered £300.
Coleridge-Taylor's works were often performed by Sir Malcolm Sargent who conducted ten seasons of a costumed ballet version of "Hiawatha" at the Royal Albert Hall between 1928 and 1939 with the Royal Choral Society (600 to 800 singers) and 200 dancers.
Coleridge-Taylor's best-known work is his cantata "Hiawatha's Wedding-feast", which was performed very often by choral groups in England during his lifetime and for many years after his death. He wrote several other pieces about Hiawatha: "The Death of Minnehaha", "Overture to The Song of Hiawatha" and "Hiawatha's Departure". 
He also wrote a lot of chamber music, anthems and other works. The orchestral piece "Petite Suite de Concert" used to be very popular, but its Romanticism sounds a little old-fashioned now. 
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed Stanley Sadie; ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="146395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146395" title="Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro">
Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro

The Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro is a Catholic university based in the neighborhood Gavea in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It was founded in 1941 by D. Sebastião Leme and the Rev. Leonel Franca, and was officially recognized in January 15, 1946.
The PUC-Rio was one of the first universities that taught Entrepreneurship in the graduation courses in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="146401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146401" title="Quim Monzó">
Quim Monzó

Quim Monzó (born in Barcelona, Spain, in 1952) is a Catalan writer of novels, short stories and discursive prose, mostly in the Catalan language. 
In the early 1970s, Monzó reported from Vietnam, Cambodia, Northern Ireland and East Africa for newspapers in Barcelona. His fiction is full of irony. His other prose maintains this humor. One collection of his essays, "Catorze ciutats comptant-hi Brooklyn", is notable for its account of New York in the days immediately following September 11. 

</doc>
<doc id="146406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146406" title="Northern Light Infantry">
Northern Light Infantry

The Northern Light Infantry (NLI) is a Light Infantry Regiment of the Pakistan Army. Headquartered in Gilgit, the capital of Northern Areas, Pakistan, it is the main force protecting the strategically important northern areas of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="146407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146407" title="Pakistan National Command Authority">
Pakistan National Command Authority

The National Command Authority (NCA) of Pakistan is the Pakistani organisation responsible for policy formulation. It has control over employment and development for all strategic nuclear forces and strategic organizations.

</doc>
<doc id="146416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146416" title="Setting (fiction)">
Setting (fiction)

A setting is the time, location, and atmosphere (e.g. happy, sad, exciting, frightening, etc.) the novel is taking place in.

</doc>
<doc id="146418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146418" title="Category:Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)">
Category:Districts of Balochistan (Pakistan)


</doc>
<doc id="146419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146419" title="National symbols of Pakistan">
National symbols of Pakistan

Pakistan has several official national symbols including a historic document, a flag, an emblem, an anthem, a memorial tower as well as several national heroes. The symbols were adopted at various stages in the existence of Pakistan and there are various rules and regulations governing their definition or use. The oldest symbol is the Lahore Resolution, adopted by the All India Muslim League on 23 March 1940, and which presented the formal demand for greater autonomy for Muslims in united India, and later led to the demand for a separate and independent 'Pakistan'. The Minar-e-Pakistan memorial tower which was built in 1968 on the site where the Lahore Resolution was passed. The national flag was adopted just before independence was achieved on 14 August 1947. The national anthem and the state emblem were each adopted in 1954. There are also several other symbols including the national animal, bird, flower and tree.

</doc>
<doc id="146428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146428" title="Sei whale">
Sei whale

The Sei whale ("Balaenoptera borealis") is a dark-gray, stream-lined baleen whale that is found worldwide except in polar waters. It swims in small pods of 3-5 whales but larger groups may form at rich feeding grounds. It has very fine grey-black baleen that traps very small particles of food. It is a rorqual whale (a large baleen whale) that is similar to theBryde's whales.
The Sei whale is also called the Sardine whale, the Pollack whale, the Coalfish whale, the Japan Finner, and Rudolphi's rorqual. Large numbers of these whales were hunted until recently for their oil and meat. It is the fastest of the great whales and can swim at about 23 mph (20 knots) in short bursts.
Sei whales are carnivores that filter-feed plankton (tiny crustaceans like krill, copepods, etc.) and small fish from the water.

</doc>
<doc id="146430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146430" title="Vithoba">
Vithoba

Vithoba is a Hindu god worshipped mainly in the Indian states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. He is also known as Vitthala and Panduranga. He is generally considered a form of the Hindu god Vishnu or Krishna. In stone images and pictures, he is shown as a dark young boy. He stands on a brick with his hands on his waist. His wife Rukmini or Rakhumai stands with him.
Vithoba's main temple is at Pandharpur in Maharashtra. It is close to its border with Karnataka. Two Hindu sects, the Varkari sect of Maharashtra and Haridasa sect of Karnataka worship Vithoba as their main god. The Varkari poet-saints have written devotional poems called "abhanga"s in praise of god Vithoba. The abhangas are written in the language Marathi. The Haridasa poets have also written poems, devoted to Vithoba in the Kannada language. The two most important festivals associated with Vithoba are "Shayani Ekadashi" in the Hindu month of Ashadha, and "Prabodini Ekadashi" in the Hindu month of Kartik.

</doc>
<doc id="146432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146432" title="Breadalbane, New South Wales">
Breadalbane, New South Wales

Breadalbane () is a small village on the Lachlan River in New South Wales, Australia. It is near Goulburn in the Upper Lachlan Shire. This little town is also on the Hume Highway which links Sydney and Melbourne. The highway used to go through the small town but it was bypassed in the early 1990s. Breadalbane is also situated on the Sydney-Melbourne railway line.
Breadalbane is also near the start of the Federal Highway. This branches off the Hume Highway just south of Goulburn and goes to Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory. Canberra is the capital city of Australia where the Federal Parliament sits.
Breadalbane is a very historic town. There are now only a few houses. In the past there was a hotel, service station and a railway station. These are now closed, although the old hotel and service station buildings are still there. They are now used as private houses. The railway station opened in 1875 and closed in 1974. The signal box was still used until 1979. All trace of the station has been removed, although a loading bank is still standing. 
There is a memorial at the school to people from Breadalbane who fought in World War II. It has 40 names on it.

</doc>
<doc id="146434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146434" title="Hydrofoil">
Hydrofoil

A hydrofoil is a type of boat that can lift its hull out of the water with a pair of special wings underwater. These wings are like the wings of an airplane.
When a hydrofoil moves quickly, its wings allow it to fly. When this happens the boat is said to be in "foilborne". The result of flying means less of the boat is touching the water and can make the boat have less drag which allows it to move faster (drag slows a boat down).
or special pontoons when going fast keep it out of the water.

</doc>
<doc id="146435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146435" title="Gundaroo, New South Wales">
Gundaroo, New South Wales

Gundaroo is a small village in New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Yass Valley Shire. It is built near the Yass River. Gundaroo is about 16 kms north of Sutton and about 15 km west of the Lake George range. About 300 people live there. 
The explorers Charles Throsby and Joseph Wild travelled through the Yass River valley in 1820. The Aborigines called the valley "Candariro" which means "blue crane". This name might be the meaning of the word Gundaroo. Governor Lachlan Macquarie gave the first Europen settler, Peter Cooney, 30 acres in 1825. Other farms were started quickly with about 400 people in the 1840s. The Harrow Inn (hotel) was built in 1834. A post office was built in 1848 and an Anglican church, St Lukes in Upper Gundaroo (now part of a pottery business), in 1849. The first school opened in 1850 and a Police station in 1852. When gold was discovered in the area in 1852 many more people came to the town.
Gundaroo has become a place where people who work in Canberra can live. It is a village for tourists from Canberra to visit because of its well cared for historic buildings.

</doc>
<doc id="146449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146449" title="Jack Adams">
Jack Adams

John James "Jack" Adams (June 14, 1895 – May 1, 1968) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player, coach and general manager in the National Hockey League and Pacific Coast Hockey Association. He was a Hall of Fame player during a 10 year professional career with Toronto, Vancouver and Ottawa. He is best known for his 36-year association with the Detroit Red Wings of the NHL as coach or general manager. He later became president of the Central Hockey League.

</doc>
<doc id="146450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146450" title="Category:Canadian ice hockey coaches">
Category:Canadian ice hockey coaches


</doc>
<doc id="146452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146452" title="Almas Tower">
Almas Tower

Almas Tower is a skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is 363 meters (1,191 feet) tall and has 68 floors. It was built in 2009 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

</doc>
<doc id="146454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146454" title="Emirates Office Tower">
Emirates Office Tower

Emirates Office Tower is a skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is 355 meters (1,163 feet) tall and has 54 floors. It was built in 2000 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world
Emirates Office Tower is next to the Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel, which is also one of the tallest buildings in the world at 309m (1,014ft).

</doc>
<doc id="146455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146455" title="Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel">
Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel

Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel is a skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is 309 meters (1,014 feet) tall and has 56 floors. It was built in 2000 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world
Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel is next to the Emirates Office Tower, which is also one of the tallest buildings in the world at 355m (1,163ft).

</doc>
<doc id="146456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146456" title="Jeremy Adduono">
Jeremy Adduono

Jeremy Adduono (born August 4, 1978, in Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian professional ice hockey winger. He was drafted in the seventh round, 184th overall, by the Buffalo Sabres in the 1997 NHL Entry Draft.

</doc>
<doc id="146459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146459" title="Old College, University of Edinburgh">
Old College, University of Edinburgh

Old College is a building in Edinburgh, United Kingdom. It is part of University of Edinburgh.

</doc>
<doc id="146463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146463" title="Garage, Inc.">
Garage, Inc.

Garage Inc. is a cover album by American heavy metal band Metallica, released in 1998.
It includes recorded cover versions of other artists' songs, all of their b-side covers released up to that point, and the entire "", which had gone out of print since its original release in 1987. The title is a combination of Garage Days Re-Revisited and their song Damage, Inc. Over 5 million copies have been sold in the US as certified by the RIAA.
"Professional reviews":
These tracks were recorded in September-October 1998 for the "Garage Inc." album.
These tracks are a collection of B-sides from artists Metallica were inspired by throughout the early years of the band.

</doc>
<doc id="146468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146468" title="Christmas 1994 nor'easter">
Christmas 1994 nor'easter

The Christmas 1994 nor'easter was a strong cyclone along the East Coast of the United States and Atlantic Canada. It developed from an area of low pressure in the southeast Gulf of Mexico near the Florida Keys, and moved across the state of Florida.
A weather system moved towards the southeast from the central Great Plains into the Deep South of the United States. After entering the Gulf of Mexico, the weather system became a cyclone. An approaching trough pushed the system across Florida. A forecaster at the National Hurricane Center, Jack Beven, said that "as it [the storm] moved out into the Bahamas, it appeared to take on the characteristics of a tropical storm." He also noted that because of the uncertainty, the National Hurricane Center did not call the weather system a tropical cyclone.
The cyclone was said to be a "hybrid" storm. The cyclone quickly gained strength in warm waters from the Gulf Stream, and because of cold air over the United States. The system continued to become stronger while moving within the Gulf Stream. The storm developed central atmospheric convection, which is unusual for a storm of its type. Extratropical cyclone. Also, the system developed an eye, which is usually seen in tropical cyclones. Even though the cyclone showed signs of a tropical storm, forecaster Jack Beven stated: "There was no front associated with it [the storm] and it had a warm core, but the radius of maximum winds was more than 150 nautical miles [175 mi, 280 km], so under the standard NHC criteria it didn’t qualify as a tropical storm." On December 23 and 24, the nor'easter intensified to attain a barometric pressure of 970|mb. Another low pressure system that developed behind the storm became stronger, and grew to be larger in size than the original storm. Due to the Fujiwhara effect, the large circulation of the secondary low moved the original nor'easter towards the northwest. The nor'easter passed along the south shore of Long Island, and it made landfall near New York City on December 24. Later, it moved over southeastern New York State. On December 25, which is Christmas Day, the system began to lose strength as it moved towards Nova Scotia, before the pair of low pressure systems moved out to sea early on December 26.

</doc>
<doc id="146477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146477" title="River Wear">
River Wear

The Wear is a river in northeast England. It starts in Wearhead, County Durham and opens up into the North Sea at Sunderland.
Much of the River Wear shows the history of the Industrial Revolution. Its upper end runs through lead mining country, until this gives way to coal seams of the Durham coalfield for the rest of its length. As a result of limestone quarrying, lead mining and coal mining, the Wear valley was amongst the first places to see the development of railways. The Weardale Railway continues to run occasional services between Stanhope and Wolsingham.
The upland area of Upper Weardale has a flora which survives from the end of the last Ice Age. After the Ice Age, the Wear valley became thickly forested. During the Neolithic period and increasingly in the Bronze Age, the forests were progressively cleared for agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="146479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146479" title="River Tees">
River Tees

The Tees is a river in England. It starts in Cross Fell (a mountain) in the Pennines, and opens up into the North Sea. It forms a border between North Yorkshire and County Durham and also between the towns of Hartlepool and Redcar. It is also 85 miles or 137 kilometres long. High force waterfalls is 7 feet high. The Pennines Way was opened in 1965.

</doc>
<doc id="146484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146484" title="Rutland Boughton">
Rutland Boughton

Boughton studied with Charles Villiers Stanford and Walford Davies. He wrote many different kinds of music including symphonies, concertos, part-songs, songs, chamber music and opera. His best known work was the opera "The Immortal Hour". His carol "Bethlehem" (1915) became very popular in England and in many other countries.
He was a great admirer of the composer Richard Wagner who had built his own theatre, the Bayreuth Festspielhaus, in the German town of Bayreuth. Boughton wanted to create an "English Bayreuth" at Glastonbury, so he started the series of Glastonbury Festivals that took place from 1914 until 1926. From 1927 until his death in 1960, he lived at Kilcot near Newent, Gloucestershire. 

</doc>
<doc id="146487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146487" title="Bayreuth Festspielhaus">
Bayreuth Festspielhaus

The Bayreuth Festspielhaus ("Bayreuth Festival Theatre") is an opera house in the town of Bayreuth, Germany. The German opera composer Richard Wagner got the opera house built so that his own music could be performed properly. He had lots of ideas about how opera should be performed, and he thought that there was no opera house in Germany that was good enough for performances of his operas. Today it is still the place where every year there is a festival, the Bayreuth Festival, which is dedicated only to the operas of Richard Wagner.
King Ludwig II of Bavaria was a great admirer of Richard Wagner and he gave a lot of money for the opera house to be built. Wagner watched the construction all the time and made sure that everything was built in the way he wanted. Work on the building started on 22 May 1872 (Wagner's birthday), and it was ready four years later when, for the first time, all four operas which make up the cycle called "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung"), were performed.
The opera house is big enough for an audience of 1,925. One unusual thing is the orchestra pit, which is right under the stage, covered by a hood, so that the orchestra cannot be seen at all by the audience. Wagner wanted the audience to be able to concentrate properly on the action on the stage instead of being distracted by watching the orchestra. It makes it very difficult for the orchestra and the singers to be together, and conductors have to get used to the problem.
The Festspielhaus also has a double proscenium, which makes it look as if the stage is farther away than it actually is.

</doc>
<doc id="146489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146489" title="Kilmacolm">
Kilmacolm

Kilmalcolm is a town in Inverclyde, Scotland, UK. The village has a population of around 4,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="146490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146490" title="Port Glasgow">
Port Glasgow

Port Glasgow is a town in Inverclyde, Scotland, UK.
Newark Castle stands very close to the shore of the Clyde. The castle dates to around 1484. It is now a visitor attraction maintained by Historic Scotland. Several acres of the Clyde foreshore at Parklea are owned by the National Trust for Scotland. Coronation Park is in the town centre. The park was opened on the site of the West Harbour in 1937 to celebrate the coronation of King George VI.

</doc>
<doc id="146491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146491" title="Largs">
Largs

Largs is a town in North Ayrshire, Scotland, UK. It is about from Glasgow. The original name means "the slopes" ("An Leargaidh") in Scottish Gaelic. 

</doc>
<doc id="146492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146492" title="Category:Towns in North Ayrshire">
Category:Towns in North Ayrshire

Towns in North Ayrshire, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146493" title="Category:Towns in Inverclyde">
Category:Towns in Inverclyde

Towns in Inverclyde, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146496" title="Dunoon">
Dunoon

Dunoon is a town in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146498" title="Falkland, Fife">
Falkland, Fife

Falkland is a town in Fife, Scotland, UK.
Falkland Palace is in the town. James IV started building it in 1500. It is the best example of French-influenced Renaissance architecture in the United Kingdom. Mary, Queen of Scots came to visit often. 
A fire happened when Oliver Cromwell's troops stayed in the palace. The fire in 1654 destroyed the East Range. The Court never came back to Falkland Palace after 1665. In the late 19th century rebuilding and restoration work began. Today the palace and gardens are open to the public through the National Trust for Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="146499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146499" title="Saving Abel">
Saving Abel

Saving Abel is an American rock band. It formed in 2004 in Mississippi. Saving Abel makes records for Virgin Records. The band made a studio album in 2006 called "Saving Abel" and released a later self-titled album ("Saving Abel"). The rock band is famous for two songs, Addicted and 18 Days. 

</doc>
<doc id="146501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146501" title="Carl Reinecke">
Carl Reinecke

Carl Reinecke (born Altona, Hamburg 23 June 1824; died Leipzig, 10 March 1910) was a Danish-born composer, conductor, and pianist.
Reinecke was born near Hamburg, which was part of Denmark at the time. Carl learned music from his father. He was soon playing the piano in public and was composing by the age of twelve.
When he was 19 he travelled about giving concerts. He went as far east as Riga. In 1846 he became Court Pianist for King Christian VIII in Copenhagen. He stayed there until 1848, composing four piano concertos as well as concertos for violin, cello, harp and flute. He continued to travel, including to Leipzig where he met Schumann, Mendelssohn and Liszt. 
In 1851 he became a professor at the Cologne Conservatory. Later he had conducting jobs in Barmen and Breslau.
In 1860, Reinecke was made director of the famous Gewandhaus Orchestra concerts in Leipzig, and professor of composition and piano at the Conservatorium. He became director of the Conservatorium and made it one of the best in Europe. He conducted the Gewandhaus Orchestra for 35 years and raised the standard of their playing. He conducted many first performances, including the first complete performance of Brahms's "German Requiem" (1869).
Perhaps his best-known piece is the flute sonata "Undine". He taught many famous musicians, including Edvard Grieg, Christian Sinding, Leoš Janáček, Isaac Albéniz, Johan Svendsen, Felix Weingartner and Max Bruch. 
At the age of 80, Reinecke recorded his playing on piano roll, making him the earliest-born pianist to have his playing recorded in any way.
He retired in 1902, but continued to compose until the end of his life. 

</doc>
<doc id="146503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146503" title="Saving Abel (2008 album)">
Saving Abel (2008 album)

On March 11, 2008, the rock band Saving Abel released their hit studio album called Saving Abel (the second self-titled album). A song in this particular album is featured on Saving Abel's previous studio album called "18 Days". There are two major singles on this album called "Addicted" and "18 Days". The album has 11 studio tracks on it, and 2 original B-Sides. The album was produced by producer Skidd Mills. The album's songs have some of the songs featured on it from the previous self-titled studio album like "18 Days", "Drowning (Face Down)", "Running Away from You", and "Beautiful You".

</doc>
<doc id="146504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146504" title="18 Days">
18 Days

"18 Days" is the second single off the 2008 album by Saving Abel called "Saving Abel". The song is also on the previous self-titled album by Saving Abel. The song was released in late 2008 when it took major airplay.
"18 Days" by Saving Abel reached 14 on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot Modern Rock Tracks. The single also peaked at #8 on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks.

</doc>
<doc id="146506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146506" title="Dagenham">
Dagenham

Dagenham is an area of London, United Kingdom. It has been a part of Greater London since 1965. There are mostly places for people to live and few businesses.

</doc>
<doc id="146507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146507" title="Grays">
Grays

Grays is a town in Essex, England, UK. It is sometimes called Grays Thurrock. 
The town is about 20 miles (32 km) to the east of London. It is on the north bank of the River Thames, and near the M25 motorway.

</doc>
<doc id="146509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146509" title="Carcoar, New South Wales">
Carcoar, New South Wales

Carcoar is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Blayney Shire. In 2006, 218 people lived in Carcoar. It next to the Mid-Western Highway, west of Sydney and south west of Bathurst. It is above sea-level. Carcoar is in a small green valley, with the town on both sides of the Belubula River.
Carcoar was once one of the most important government centres in Western New South Wales. The town has been classified by the National Trust. This is because it has a lot of buildings from the 1800s. Carcoar is a Aboriginal word from the Gundungura people meaning either "frog" or "kookaburra".
Nearby towns are Blayney, Millthorpe, Mandurama, Neville, Lyndhurst and Barry.
The first people to live in the area were the Gundungura people. The first Europen to travel through the area was surveyor George Evans. He came from Bathurst in 1815 and set up his camp on Coombing Creek.
The first settlers arrived in 1821. The first official land grant, 560 acres (2.3 km²), was given to Thomas Icely on 26 May 1829. He named his farm "Coombing Park". In 1838 Thomas Icely asked that a village be started to supply items for his big farm. On 29 September 1839 Carcoar became the third town west of the Blue Mountains.
The first land for houses in the town were sold in 1840. By 1850 Carcoar was the second biggest town west of the mountains. It was second in size to Bathurst. It became a banking and government centre for the area. In 1857 the town's public school opened. It is one of the oldest schools in Australia.
When gold was found in the west in the 1860s, Carcoar became less important. The government began building a number of important buildings in the late 1870s. At this time, "Coombing Park" was supplying iron ore to the Lithgow steelworks.
Because the town is at the bottom of a steep valley it wasn't suitable for the railway. The railway line went to Blayney north west in 1874. By the early 1880s many people had left the town. Carcoar was joined to the railway line in 1888 when the Blayney-Demondrille Line.
In the 1980s train services were stopped between Cowra and Blayney. This included included Carcoar. This section was re-opened by the Lachlan Valley Railway. The LVR run tourist trains, mainly from Cowra to Blayney and Canowindra. They have now moved into general freight haulage.
Carcoar's was often visited by escaped convicts and bushrangers. They came into the town and robbed many times.
In one robbery, German Charley tried to stop Mickey Bourke from stealing a racehorse from the "Coombing Park" stables. He was shot dead by Bourke. Another bushranger, Curran was captured by the local police. The government sent extra police and a magistrate to the town. Frank Gardiner was working in the area after six years gaol for stealing horses. He gave up farm work and started stealing cattle.
In 1863 Johnny Gilbert and John O'Meally tried to rob the Commercial Bank. This may be Australia's first daylight bank robbery. Both bushrangers ran away when a bank worker fired a shot into the ceiling of the bank.
The Presbyterian Reverend James Adam was held up by Ben Hall. Hall liked the Adam and didn't rob him.
The town has been used as a location for many movie and television productions. They include:

</doc>
<doc id="146511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146511" title="Gravesend">
Gravesend

Gravesend is a town in Kent, England, UK. It is on the bank of the river Thames. One of the most famous landmarks in Gravesend is the Clock Tower, a scaled replica of Elizabeth Tower, the tower that houses Big Ben in the Palace of Westminster. 
Gemma Arterton was born and raised in Gravesend. Some people say Pocahontas is buried there, however there is no of this.

</doc>
<doc id="146515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146515" title="Bach Choir">
Bach Choir

The Bach Choir is a world-famous amateur choir based in London. They sing the music of many composers, not just Johann Sebastian Bach.
The Bach Choir gave its first concert on 26 April 1876 with a performance of Bach’s "Mass in B minor". At this time more and more people in England were becoming interested in the music of Bach, but the "Mass in B minor" had never been performed in England. The conductor Otto Goldschmidt conducted the concert, and afterwards the Choir's committee decided to make The Bach Choir a permanent choir. Otto Goldschmidt was appointed as the Musical Director.
In those days all choir members came from rich families (the upper classes). New members had to pass an audition, but they also had to be “proposed” (recommended) by existing members and accepted by the committee. Queen Victoria became Patron of the choir in 1879. The Choir sang music by lots of different composers as well as Bach’s motets, church music and the "Mass in B minor". 
Goldschmidt resigned in 1885 and Charles Villiers Stanford became conductor. Stanford had already become well known as organist of Trinity College, Cambridge and conductor of the Cambridge University Musical Society. He widened the repertoire of the Choir, and the concerts also included works for orchestra. Hubert Parry composed his popular anthem "Blest Pair of Sirens" for the choir to sing at the Golden Jubilee of the Queen in 1887. The Jubilee concert also included the first London performance of Berlioz's "Te Deum", a work dedicated to the late Prince Consort. 
Towards the end of the nineteenth century changes were made, including regular auditions for existing choir members, and stopping the requirement for new members to be proposed. Henry Walford Davies became the conductor. He improved the choir which was then taken over by Hugh Allen in 1908. 
Hugh Allen found himself conducting a choir which included the young Ralph Vaughan Williams, who had joined in 1903 and Adrian Boult, who joined around 1914. Allen was strict, but good, and during his time as conductor the Choir gave many important first London performances including Vaughan Williams' "Toward the Unknown Region" and "A Sea Symphony" and Parry's "Songs of Farewell". 
When Allen resigned in 1921 his place was taken by Ralph Vaughan Williams who had by then become a famous composer. He had a gentler approach than Allen. He stayed until 1928 when he left to be able to work more on composition. In his place the Choir appointed Gustav Holst, but he became ill and was never able to take up his post. Instead, Adrian Boult took over for three years. During his time it became tradition to perform Bach’s "St Matthew Passion" every year. This tradition continues today.
Boult was replaced by Reginald Jacques (pronounced: “Jakes”), who had been a pupil of Hugh Allen at Oxford. Jacques stayed until 1960. He managed to keep the Choir going through World War II, and the annual Carol Concerts became part of their tradition. They made a recording of the "St Matthew Passion" which filled 42 sides of the old 78 rpm. gramophone records.
Jacques was followed by David Willcocks who led the Choir almost to the end of the century. He broadened the Choir’s repertoire, and they gave the first London concert hall performance of Britten's War Requiem, conducted by Britten himself, with Galina Vishnevskaya, Peter Pears and Tom Krause (who replaced Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau at the last minute) as soloists. The Choir then recorded the work and this recording sold more than 200,000 copies in the first five months. Willcocks took the Choir on tours to many parts of the world. His last performance was in 1998.
Today the Choir is conducted by David Hill. As well as spending much of his time with The Bach Choir, he is also conductor of the BBC Singers. The choir continues to do new things, such as giving world premieres of new music, as well as keeping up the tradition of performing the "St Matthew Passion" every spring at the Royal Festival Hall. 
Basil Keen: "The Bach Choir - The First Hundred Years" (Ashgate)

</doc>
<doc id="146516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146516" title="Oban">
Oban

Oban is a town in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146517" title="Argyll and Bute">
Argyll and Bute

Argyll and Bute is a council area of Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146518" title="Category:Choirs">
Category:Choirs


</doc>
<doc id="146519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146519" title="Halesowen">
Halesowen

Halesowen is a town in West Midlands of England. Historically, it is part of Worcestershire. The population of the town in the 2001 census was 55,273.
The centre of Halesowen has a Norman church, St John's Church. It was built in 1083 on the site of an Anglo-Saxon church. It was founded by Earl Rodger de Montgomery. The building of the spire at St John's Church started at the end of the 1st century and is shows evidence of Norman origin even though there have been many alterations to it.

</doc>
<doc id="146521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146521" title="The King Of Fighters">
The King Of Fighters

The King of Fighters '94 is a 1994 fighting game released by SNK for the Neo Geo arcade and home consoles. It is the first game of "The King of Fighters" series, done by the same company.
The game is a fictional crossover with many characters from SNK's previous fighting games, "Fatal Fury" and "Art of Fighting". There are even modernized versions of their pre-Neo Geo games: "Ikari Warriors" and "Psycho Soldier". There are also original characters in this series.
The game was converted for Neo Geo AES and Neo Geo CD after the releases for Arcade. In 2004, to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the series, SNK released a remake titled "The King of Fighters '94 Rebout", featuring the original game and a newer version with high definition graphics.

</doc>
<doc id="146522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146522" title="102 Dalmatians">
102 Dalmatians

102 Dalmatians (known as "102" in Japan) is a 2000 live-action movie produced by The Walt Disney Company with Glenn Close acting as the protagonist, Cruella de Vil. It is a sequel to the 1996 movie "101 Dalmatians", which was a live-action remake of the 1961 Disney animated movie "One Hundred and One Dalmatians". In the movie, Cruella de Vil attempts to steal puppies for her making a fur coat. Glenn Close and Tim McInnerny were the only actors from "101 Dalmatians" to return for this sequel. The film was released on VHS and DVD on April 3, 2001, and re-released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on September 16, 2008.
After a spot of therapy Cruella De Vil is released from prison a changed woman. Devoted to dogs and good causes, she is delighted that Chloe, her parole officer, has a dalmatian family and connections with a dog charity. But the sound of Big Ben can reverse the treatment so it is only a matter of time before Ms De Vil is back to her incredibly ghastly ways, using her new-found connections with Chloe and friends.
The movie did well at the box office, earning $66,957,026 in the US and $116,654,745 overseas, bringing its total to $183,611,771 worldwide. However, this is less than the first movie which earned $320,689,294 worldwide.
A video game was released, with Frankie Muniz as the voice of Domino.

</doc>
<doc id="146525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146525" title="102 Dalmatians: Puppies to the Rescue">
102 Dalmatians: Puppies to the Rescue

102 Dalmatians: Puppies to the Rescue is a video game based on the live-action Disney movie "102 Dalmatians". It was made for the Sony PlayStation.
The game itself follows the movie's storyline closely. The player can choose the role of two of the dalmatians, Oddball or Domino, who are out on the town looking for treasure. It's not long before the player realizes that a toy found buried in a park was made at one of Cruella de Vil's toy factories; the fact that her toys are being buried rather than being played with is making mean Cruella very upset. Facing financial ruin from lack of sales, Cruella sets an evil plan in motion - to reprogram her toys to capture any Dalmatian puppies in sight. Soon enough, Domino and Oddball are out on their biggest adventure yet - to save their brothers and sisters. The player needs to save their brothers and sisters, collect 100 bones and stop Cruella's henchmen. Player's health can be increased by picking up food. The player fights Cruella a few times, then off to the Toy Factory where Cruella is waiting for them. The game includes several challenging levels, from the sewers to the circus. The player befriends many other characters that help them along the way. At times the player has to take a challenge to fight Cruella in certain levels as well as other enemies such as Jasper or Horace.
-You find Jasper in this level.
-Horace is found in this level.
1. Cruella I
-Defeat Cruella to unlock the mini game "Tilt Maze".
-Le Pelt will be found inside the Pyramid in the Egyptian exhibit.
-Jasper will be found here. When you find the dunk tank after talking to the turtle Shelby, he will appear.
2. Cruella II
-Defeat Cruella to unlock the mini game "Checkers".
-Horace will show up near Stonehenge.
-Jasper shows up for the 3rd time in this level.
3. Cruella III
-Defeat Cruella and you will unlock the mini game "Ice Race".
-Le Pelt shows up again in this level.
-Horace appears in this level.
4. Cruella IV
-Defeat Cruella and you will win the game as well as unlocking the mini game "Jam Dance."

</doc>
<doc id="146526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146526" title="Cruella de Vil">
Cruella de Vil

Cruella De Vil (obviously a play on "cruel" and "devil") is the villain in the Dodie Smith book The Hundred and One Dalmatians who kidnaps (dognaps) the puppies for their fur. She is described as having one half of her hair white and the other half black, an extreme fondness for pepper and a preference for elevated temperatures.
In the 1961 Disney animated movie her voice was played by Betty Lou Gerson. The movie featured a song about her sung by Roger whose lyrics begin:
Later, in the 1996 live-action remake, and its 2000 sequel, "102 Dalmatians", she was played by Glenn Close. Shortly afterward, Cruella was a regular viallian in ', where she was voiced by April Winchell. This time, though, she wanted to steal the Dearly Farm, seeing how killing animals for fashion was deemed politically incorrect. However, she returned to hunting dogs in "House of Mouse" (which features an ongoing joke in which she inspects dogs from other Disney movies with a measuring ruler) and ', both of which had Susanne Blakeslee as her voice.

</doc>
<doc id="146527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146527" title="101 Dalmatians (1996 movie)">
101 Dalmatians (1996 movie)

101 Dalmatians is a movie made by The Walt Disney Company in 1996. It is a remake of the 1961 animated film "One Hundred and One Dalmatians" (which was based on Dodie Smith's 1956 novel "The Hundred and One Dalmatians"). The movie's main actor is Glenn Close as Cruella de Vil. Unlike in the earlier versions of the story, the dalmatians are played by real dalmatian actors, and none of the dalmatians talk. A sequel, "102 Dalmatians", was made in 2000 and was released in November. This movie is called simply "101" in Japan, like its sequel, which is called "102".
"101 Dalmatians" was released on VHS on April 15, 1997 and as a DVD on December 12, 2000. Because many people bought the DVD, Disney re-released the film on September 16, 2008 in the United States.
The movie made lots of money when it was in movie theatres, earning $136,189,294 in the United States and $184,500,000 in other places, bringing its worldwide total to $320,689,294.

</doc>
<doc id="146530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146530" title="African wildcat">
African wildcat

The African wildcats ("Felis silvestris lybica") are small, fierce cats that live in forests, grasslands, and brush lands in Africa and the Middle East. They are the closest living relatives of the domestic cat.
It is a wildcat subspecies which occurs across northern Africa and extends around the edges of the Arabian Peninsula to the Caspian Sea. It is the most common and widely distributed wild cat, and is listed as "Least Concern" by IUCN since 2002.
The African wildcat appears to have diverged from the other subspecies about 131,000 years ago. Some individual African wildcats were first domesticated about 10,000 years ago in the Middle East, and are the ancestors of the domestic cat. Remains of domesticated cats were found in human burials in Cyprus, done by Neolithic farmers about 9,500 years ago. Hybrids between domestic cats and African wildcats are still common today.
African wildcats are generally crepuscular, hunting at dawn and dusk. They are diurnal (most active during the day) during very cold weather. They are very good climbers. African Wildcats live for 12 to 15 years. They are about 50 percent larger than domesticated (tame) cats. 
African wildcats are carnivores, like all cats. These fast, solitary hunters eat small to medium-sized mammals, birds, reptiles, frogs, invertebrates, and eggs.

</doc>
<doc id="146543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146543" title="Gale">
Gale

A gale is a very strong wind. The Beaufort scale is a way to measure weather conditions, based on observations. The first level of the scale that uses the word gale is 7 beaufort (of a total of 13 steps). There are other definitions as well. The U.S. Government's National Weather Service defines a gale as 34 to 47 knots (63 km/h to 87 km/h or 39 miles per hour to 54 miles per hour) of sustained surface winds. Forecasters typically issue gale warnings when winds of this strength are expected.
Other sources use minima as low as and maxima as high as . The definition is very non-standard. A common alternative definition of the maximum is .

</doc>
<doc id="146544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146544" title="Marin Marais">
Marin Marais

Marin Marais (31 May 1656, Paris – 15 August 1728, Paris) was a French composer and viol player. He is regarded as one of the great French musicians of the Baroque.
Marais, the son of a poor shoe maker, was educated in a choir school were he was taught to play the viol. He then learnt from Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe, a famous bass viol player. In six months he was said to be better than his teacher. In 1675, aged 19, he joined the orchestra of the Paris Opera. This was where he met Jean-Baptiste Lully, who was the director of the Opera. Lully taught him to compose music. Marais often conducted the operas Lully had written.
Marais was hired as a musician in 1676 to play at the royal court of Versailles. He did quite well as court musician. In 1679 he was appointed "ordinaire de la chambre du roy pour la viole", a title he kept until 1725.
He was a master of the basse de viol. He wrote a lot of music for that instrument, he was the most important French composer for it. He wrote five books of "Pièces de viole" (1686-1725). Most of the pieces in the book are suites with basso continuo. These were quite popular in the court, and for these he was remembered in later years as he who "founded and firmly established the empire of the viol" (Hubert Le Blanc, 1740). His other works include a book of "Pièces en trio" (1692) and four operas (1693-1709). "Alcyone" (1706) is well known for its storm scene. Marais became the conductor of the Paris Opera in 1706, but after the failure of his 1709 opera, "Sémélé" he gradually withdrew from public life. He married Catherine d'Amicourt, on 21 September 1676. They had 19 children together. Two of the children, Vincent Marais and Roland Marais also became famous musicians, as well as his grandson, Nicolas Marais.
Titon du Tillet wrote about Marais in his book "Le Parnasse françois". He describes a piece from Marais' fourth book called "The Labyrinth", which goes through lots of keys. The notes which are often dissonant, sometimes fast, sometimes slow, describe a man caught in a labyrinth. Eventually the man comes out of it happily and the music finishes with a gracious and natural chaconne. Another piece called "La Gamme" [The Scale], very gradually goes up the steps of the octave and then down again.
Facsimiles of all five books of Marais' "Pièces de viole" are published by Éditions J.M. Fuzeau. A complete critical edition of his instrumental works in seven volumes, edited by John Hsu, is published by Broude Brothers.
Marais and his music were featured in the movie "Tous les matins du monde" (1991). The movie shows a detailed, imagined life of Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe. Marais' music is heard a lot, including his longer work "Sonnerie de Ste-Geneviève du Mont-de-Paris" (1723). A recording of the Sonnerie performed on a Fairlight synthesizer was used in the cult classic film "Liquid Sky".

</doc>
<doc id="146545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146545" title="Camberley">
Camberley

Camberley is a town in Surrey, England, UK. It is close to the border with Hampshire.

</doc>
<doc id="146546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146546" title="Category:Towns in Surrey">
Category:Towns in Surrey

Towns in Surrey, England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146547" title="Petersfield, Hampshire">
Petersfield, Hampshire

Petersfield is a town in Hampshire, England, UK. It is close to the border with West Sussex. Petersfield is a historic market town in the South Downs National Park. There is a market held in the town square every Wednesday and Saturday, with a monthly farmers market on a Sunday. The town was started at the end of the 11th century by the Normans. The Church of St.Peter was built in 1120.

</doc>
<doc id="146548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146548" title="Waterlooville">
Waterlooville

Waterlooville is a town in Hampshire, England, UK. It is not far from Portsmouth.

</doc>
<doc id="146549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146549" title="Havant">
Havant

Havant is a town in Hampshire, England, UK. It is between the cities of Portsmouth and Chichester.

</doc>
<doc id="146550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146550" title="Steyning">
Steyning

Steyning is a town in West Sussex, England, UK. It is west of the smaller villages of Bramber and Upper Beeding. It is not far north from Lancing and Shoreham-by-Sea on the South Coast. Steyning has a high street with many shops, ranging from the Co-op to Sussex Produce. There is a primary school, secondary school and a sixth form. There is a bed and breakfast hotel called, Springwells.

</doc>
<doc id="146551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146551" title="Lancing, West Sussex">
Lancing, West Sussex

Lancing has a really big library Lancing has a short station
West Sussex, England, UK. It is to the south-east of Sompting and to the south-west of Shoreham-by-Sea. There is a priva
school called Lancing College here.

</doc>
<doc id="146552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146552" title="Bognor Regis">
Bognor Regis

Bognor Regis is a town in Arun, West Sussex, England, UK. In 2001 there were 22,555 people living in Bognor Regis.
It had a beach, where Butlins is situated. 

</doc>
<doc id="146553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146553" title="Burgess Hill">
Burgess Hill

Burgess Hill is a town in West Sussex, England, UK. It is not far from the border with East Sussex. It is 38 miles (62 km) south of London, 10 miles (16 km) north of Brighton and Hove, and 29 miles (47 km) east-northeast of the county town of Chichester. It had a population of 28,803 at the time of the 2001 Census. Other nearby towns include Haywards Heath to the north and Lewes, the county town of East Sussex, to the east.
Burgess Hill is mainly situated just on the West Sussex side of the border dividing the two counties. Parts of the town are across the county boundary in East Sussex.
Although a Roman road was built joining London to the South coast and passing through what is now Burgess Hill, there is no evidence that the Romans settled in the area.
From the fourteenth century or earlier the annual Midsummer Fair was held on this common land on 24th June and the last such sheep and lamb fair was held in 1913.
With the development of the London to Brighton mainline railway, however, those in the business soon realised that taking sheep by train was much cheaper and easier than using the old roadways. Most of the animal trading business began to revolve around rail side markets such as those at Hassocks, Haywards Heath and Lewes train stations. By the start of the 20th century, the animal trading business had all but left the Burgess Hill area.
By the early seventeenth century there was a lot of small brick and tile making companies and during this time pieces of common land were given for house building and small businesses. By the early eighteenth century brick making had been extended and four shops and one or two drinking houses were established on the common. Brickmaking by hand still happened until very recently, by Keymer Tiles (formerly the Keymer Brick and Tile company) whose tiles can be found in buildings such as St. James Church, Piccadilly and Manchester Central Station (now G-Mex).
The growth of Brighton in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries brought in professional people looking for places to live. Between 1850 and 1880 the area changed from a small rural settlement to a town of 4,500 residents.
In 1897 the Victoria Pleasure Gardens were opened by local household name Edwin Street, a well-known farmer and butcher. The gardens were opened in honour of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee, and contained a large lake, and what can only be described as a small early version of a roller coaster, known as a switchback . The lake was used for boating in the summer, and skating in the winter. The frozen lake was always tested by Mr Street, a man of 23 stone, before being used in the winter. This area is now the Victoria Business Park.
The town gradually grew bigger, having its largest population increase between the years of 1951 and 1961, when the population of about 7,000 residents almost doubled. This earned Burgess Hill the title of fastest growing town in the south-east. By 1956, the Victoria Industrial Estate was completed, and has since expanded. It now contains the local headquarters of two large international companies. In 1986 a smaller industrial estate to in the north of the town developed, known as Sheddingdean Industrial Estate. Both Sheddingdean and Victoria have now been renamed as business parks.
Housing estates played their part in building up the population of Burgess Hill throughout the second half of the 20th century; in the west of the town they provided a wide mix of new residents; many of them young families and the Folders Lane estate more families settled, along with some richer residents.
The next substantial development was Priory Village in the south west of Burgess Hill, sometimes known as the Tesco estate, due to its proximity to the supermarket. Again, this brought in a mix of incomes, again, many of them young families.
It must be noted that as well as the aforementioned developments, there have been two council estates built in the town - one close to Cants Lane, in the town's north east, and the area around Denham Road in the west, both of course adding to the ever rising population of the town.
Although now part of the town, World's End, to the north of the town, was originally a separate community. It still retains its own shops and community association, and is served by Wivelsfield railway station.
Burgess Hill has a Conservative member of parliament.
There are ten schools for children aged up to 11 years and four schools for children aged 11–16/18.
There are a total of 9 churches and a Christian centre in Burgess Hill.
Burgess Hill is also home to the Mid Sussex Christian Centre.
In the town centre there is a large park (St. John's), and many other smaller recreation grounds around the town. There is a substantial leisure centre on the northern edge of Burgess Hill named the Triangle.
Burgess Hill Town Football Club plays football (soccer)and plays its home games at Leylands Park. Burgess Hill Rugby Football Club, or The Sussex All Blacks, are the local Rugby Football club.
There is also a Squash Club that plays at the Triangle Leisure Centre every Saturday and Monday, and has a team that plays in the East Sussex County League.
There is also a Running Club that meet at the Burgess Hill School for Girls every Wednesday evening. Members compete in local and national charity and fun races.
The Skate Park in the centre of town provides sporting opportunities, and holds an annual competition.
The Triangle (or Olympos Burgess Hill as it has been rechristened) is one of the venues in the South East supporting the London 2012 Olympic Games, and will serve as a base and training centre for teams from around the globe.
Burgess Hill's twin towns are:
A square in Schmallenberg has been named Burgess Hill Platz.

</doc>
<doc id="146554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146554" title="Westhampnett">
Westhampnett

Westhampnett (sometimes known as Goodwood) is a village in West Sussex, England, UK. It is not far from Chichester. It is where Rolls-Royce Motor Cars is based. They also have a plant there.

</doc>
<doc id="146556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146556" title="Haywards Heath">
Haywards Heath

Haywards Heath is a town in West Sussex, England, UK. It is not far from the border with East Sussex.

</doc>
<doc id="146557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146557" title="Lewes">
Lewes

Lewes (pronounced "Lewis") is a town in East Sussex, England, UK. A battle was fought there in 1264.
Lewes has lots of restaurants, cafés, pubs, hotels, jobs, and lots more. This attracts lots of people to visit the Town in East Sussex.
Lewes has the most historical features of all of Sussex. In 2001 it had the population of 15,988 and it is still growing.
It had its own battle called Battle Of Lewes in 1264, during the reign of Henry III.

</doc>
<doc id="146558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146558" title="Uckfield">
Uckfield

Uckfield is a town in Wealden, East Sussex, England, UK. It is on the River Uck. In 2001 there were 13,697 people living in Uckfield.

</doc>
<doc id="146561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146561" title="Bexhill-on-Sea">
Bexhill-on-Sea

Bexhill-on-Sea is a seaside town in East Sussex, England, UK. It is between Eastbourne and Hastings.

</doc>
<doc id="146562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146562" title="Royal Tunbridge Wells">
Royal Tunbridge Wells

Royal Tunbridge Wells is a town in Kent, England, UK. It is not far from the border with East Sussex. It should not be confused with Tonbridge, a smaller town to the north.

</doc>
<doc id="146563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146563" title="Folkestone">
Folkestone

Folkestone is a seaside town in Kent, England, United Kingdom. It has a Eurostar train terminal near it, in Ashford. But the channel tunnel is in Folkestone. It is has a pebble beach and sandy beach and there are cliffs.

</doc>
<doc id="146564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146564" title="Lundy">
Lundy

Lundy is an island off the coast of Devon, England, UK. It has a very small population. In the 1930s the owner sold stamps and coins as if Lundy was an independent country. You can hire cottages on this island to stay in for a week or so. You can get to Lundy by helicopter or a ferry in the summer.

</doc>
<doc id="146565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146565" title="Category:Islands of England">
Category:Islands of England

These are the islands belonging to England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146566" title="Westward Ho!">
Westward Ho!

Westward Ho! is a village on the north coast of Devon, England, UK. It is the only place in the British Isles to have an exclamation mark (!) in its name. The name comes from the novel of the same name by Charles Kingsley.
Another example of a place name with a exclamation mark in its name is Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha!, Quebec (Canada). But these are colloquial, unlike Westward Ho!'s.

</doc>
<doc id="146567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146567" title="Bude">
Bude

Bude is a town in Cornwall, England, UK. It is on the mouth of the River Neet.

</doc>
<doc id="146569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146569" title="Padstow">
Padstow

Padstow is a town in Cornwall, England, UK. It is at the mouth of the River Camel. It is a fishing port and is well known for the Obby Oss (hobby horse) ceremony which is celebrated on May Day every year.

</doc>
<doc id="146573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146573" title="Category:Towns in Staffordshire">
Category:Towns in Staffordshire

Towns in Staffordshire, England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146577" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Yottie/3">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Yottie/3

RFA
Hi everyone! 
This article is about the process here at Simple.
As you might have noticed, there have been/are some quite controversial Requests for adminship going on. There have been some really ridiculous opposing votes against some candidates like "not being active enough (making only 2 edits a day)", "they didn't like someone's personnal life" or even "not having enough qd tags and VIP reports". But that's not the worst thing. The worst thing is that they did not oppose the other candidate even though he did not have as many QD tags and was not as active. I think it's come to the point were the system needs new rules. It doesn't seem a fair system anymore and I invite you to comment at 
Thank you. 18:20, 19 January 2009 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="146578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146578" title="Pima County, Arizona">
Pima County, Arizona

Pima County is one of the 15 counties in the US state of Arizona.
The county seat is Tucson which has the second most people in the state.

</doc>
<doc id="146580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146580" title="Aviemore">
Aviemore

Aviemore is a town in Highlands of Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146582" title="Swansea">
Swansea

Swansea is a city and county in Wales, UK. It is the second largest city in Wales. It is in the West of Wales, on the coast. It has a temperate oceanic climate, with the most rain of all British cities. About 240,000 people live in Swansea. 

</doc>
<doc id="146583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146583" title="John Ireland">
John Ireland

John Ireland (born near Manchester, 13 August 1879; died Washington, Sussex, 12 June 1962) was an English composer. He is particularly remembered for his "Piano Concerto" and for his church music, especially the anthem "Greater love hath no man", the song "The Holy Boy" and the hymn tune to "My song is love unknown". He had an unhappy childhood, and he always felt unsure of himself and rather lonely.
John Ireland was born in Bowdon, Greater Manchester. His father, who was 70 years old, was a publisher who owned a newspaper. He had married for a second time after his wife had died, and John was the youngest of five children from the second marriage. His mother was 30 years younger than her husband. When John was 14 his mother died, and his father died the next year.
John Ireland studied piano and organ at the Royal College of Music. Later he also had composition lessons from Charles Villiers Stanford. He later became a teacher at the College himself. His pupils included the composers Alan Bush and
Geoffrey Bush (who were not related), Ernest Moeran and Benjamin Britten. Geoffrey Bush later helped to prepare a lot of Ireland’s works for publication. Ireland mostly made his living as an organist and choirmaster.
Ireland enjoyed going to the Channel Islands. He liked the landscapes there. He was evacuated from them just before the German invasion during World War II. 
John Ireland married once, but his marriage only lasted a few months.
On 10 September 1949, his 70th birthday was celebrated in a special Prom concert. The soloist in the "Piano Concerto" was the pianist Eileen Joyce, who later made the first gramophone recording of the concerto. 
Ireland retired in 1953. He moved to a tiny village in Sussex, where he lived in an old windmill which had been changed into a home.
He died aged 82 in Washington, Sussex of heart failure.
John Ireland was never much influenced by folksong like many other English composers of his time. His music is more related to Impressionism. He liked the music of French composers such as Debussy and Ravel as well as Igor Stravinsky and Bartók. His "Piano Concerto" is one of his best works. It shows that he developed his own personal style of harmony. Most of his other good works are short pieces, including many for piano solo. His best-known piece is the song "The Holy Boy". It is heard in many different arrangements. His songs to poems by A. E. Housman, Thomas Hardy, Christina Rossetti, John Masefield, Rupert Brooke and others, are among some of the best English art songs.. He also wrote hymns, carols, and other sacred choral music; among choirs he is probably best known for the anthem "Greater love hath no man", often sung in services that remember the victims of war. Another choral work, "These things shall be" expresses his deepest hopes for mankind, although in his last years he said that he hated the work.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie, 1980; ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="146584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146584" title="Bathgate">
Bathgate

Bathgate is a town in West Lothian, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146585" title="Category:Towns in West Lothian">
Category:Towns in West Lothian

Towns in West Lothian, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146586" title="Joint Typhoon Warning Center">
Joint Typhoon Warning Center

The Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) is a joint United States Navy – United States Air Force task force. It is at the Naval Maritime Forecast Center in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.

</doc>
<doc id="146587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146587" title="Dwarf elephant">
Dwarf elephant

Dwarf elephants are prehistoric elephants which lived in the Pleistocene period. They are an example of island dwarfism.
Fossil remains of dwarf elephants have been found on the Mediterranean islands of Cyprus, Malta, Crete, Sicily, Sardinia, the Cyclades Islands and Dodecanese islands. Other islands where dwarf elephants have been found are Sulawesi, Flores, Timor and other islands of the Lesser Sundas and the Channel Islands of California.
They are considered to be one of the only elephant of the Mediterranean islands belonging to the mammoth line.

</doc>
<doc id="146590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146590" title="Kwajalein">
Kwajalein

Kwajaein is part of the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI). It is one of the world's largest coral atolls as measured by area of enclosed water.

</doc>
<doc id="146591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146591" title="Bo'ness">
Bo'ness

Bo'ness (short for Borrowstouness) is a town in the Falkirk council area of Scotland, UK. Bo'ness is well known for its iron.

</doc>
<doc id="146592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146592" title="Category:Towns in Falkirk council area">
Category:Towns in Falkirk council area

Towns in the Falkirk council area of Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146593" title="David Hart Smith">
David Hart Smith

Harry Smith (born August 2, 1985) is a Canadian professional wrestler of English descent who currently works for New Japan Pro Wrestling under the name Davey Boy Smith, Jr..
He also worked for World Wrestling Entertainment. He wrestled on the ECW brand using the name David Hart Smith, as a member of The Hart Dynasty, alongside Tyson Kidd and Natalya.
He has wrestled on its Raw brand and in Florida Championship Wrestling under the name DH Smith ("D" for Davey Boy Smith, and "H" for the Hart family). On August 5, 2011, WWE released him from his wrestling contract. He currently holds the PWA World Heavyweight title.
His grandfather is Stu Hart who was a wrestling promoter. His father was Davey Boy Smith. His first public wrestling match was at age 10. He started wrestling professionally on February 22, 2002 at age 16 and has been continuing since then.
Entrance music

</doc>
<doc id="146594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146594" title="Kilwinning">
Kilwinning

Kilwinning is a town in North Ayrshire, Scotland, UK. It is known as The Crossroads of Ayrshire.

</doc>
<doc id="146595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146595" title="Lasswade">
Lasswade

Lasswade is a town in Midlothian, Scotland, UK. It is between Loanhead and Dalkeith. It merged (joined) with Bonnyrigg in 1929.

</doc>
<doc id="146597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146597" title="West Lothian">
West Lothian

West Lothian is a council area in Scotland, United Kingdom. The county town is Livingston. Susan Boyle is from here.
The term "West Lothian question" was coined by Enoch Powell MP in 1977 after Tam Dalyell, the Labour MP for the Scottish constituency of West Lothian, raised the matter repeatedly in House of Commons debates on devolution.

</doc>
<doc id="146598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146598" title="Midlothian">
Midlothian

Midlothian is the names of two areas in Scotland, UK:
The county of Midlothian includes the City of Edinburgh. Edinburgh is a council area on its own and so the council area of Midlothian is the area of the county with Edinburgh and some hills in the south cut off.

</doc>
<doc id="146599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146599" title="East Lothian">
East Lothian

East Lothian is a council area in Scotland, UK.
The administrative centre is Haddington. The largest town is Musselburgh.

</doc>
<doc id="146601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146601" title="Falkirk (council area)">
Falkirk (council area)

The Falkirk council area is is one of 32 council areas of Scotland. It was formed on 1 April 1996.

</doc>
<doc id="146602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146602" title="Frank Bridge">
Frank Bridge

Frank Bridge (born Brighton, 26 February 1879; died Eastbourne, 10 January 1941) was an English composer, violist and conductor. His music often sounded quite modern to the people of his day. He wrote many excellent works including chamber music as well as orchestral music. One of his composition pupils was Benjamin Britten. Later Britten remembered his teacher by using one of Bridge’s tunes and making them into a piece of music called "Variations on a Theme of Frank Bridge".
Bridge was born in Brighton and studied at the Royal College of Music in London from 1899 to 1903. One of his teachers was Charles Villiers Stanford. He played the viola in several string quartets and conducted many orchestras. He learned difficult music very quickly, and sometimes Henry Wood asked him to take his place when he was not well enough to conduct himself. After a while he spent most of his time composing. He privately taught several pupils, including Benjamin Britten, who later helped to make his teacher's music better known and honoured him in his "Variations on a Theme of Frank Bridge" for string orchestra (1937), based on a theme from the second of Bridge's "Three Idylls for String Quartet" (1906). 
Bridge died in Eastbourne.
Bridge’s early works show the influence of Johannes Brahms and Charles Villiers Stanford. He wrote some excellent chamber music and songs. The "Phantasie Quartet" and the "String Quartet no 1" show his talent. His later pieces such as the third (1926) and fourth (1937) string quartets have quite complicated harmonies and show his interest in the music of Schoenberg as well as the harmonies of Maurice Ravel and Alexander Scriabin. His most important orchestral works include "The Sea" and "Summer". He wrote some lovely chamber music for the cello as well as many songs. In his later years his harmonies become quite advanced, for example a favourite chord of his can be found by playing a C minor chord and a D major chord together. In his longer pieces the speed of the music often changes and he avoids repeating himself exactly. 
For a long time after his death his music was hardly ever played, but more recently musicians have discovered the greatness of his compositions. Pianists like to play the popular piano piece called "Rosemary".

</doc>
<doc id="146604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146604" title="Auchtertool">
Auchtertool

Auchtertool is a village in Fife, Scotland, UK. It is on the B925 Road between Dunfermline and Kirkcaldy.

</doc>
<doc id="146607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146607" title="Cowdenbeath">
Cowdenbeath

Cowdenbeath is a town in Fife, Scotland, UK. It is well known for Mossmorran, an oil refinery. It is on the A92 Road.

</doc>
<doc id="146608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146608" title="Moray">
Moray

Moray is a council area in Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146609" title="South Ayrshire">
South Ayrshire

South Ayrshire is one of 32 council areas of Scotland, UK. The largest town is Ayr.

</doc>
<doc id="146610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146610" title="Angus">
Angus

Angus is a county on the North Sea and on the northern shore of the Firth of Tay in Scotland, United Kingdom.
Angus is also the name of a council area.
The county town of Angus is Forfar, but its largest town is Dundee. Dundee is not part of the council area but is a council area on its own.
Angus is also well known for its breed of cattle much used in beef production. The Angus cattle were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus, and are now found in most parts of the world.

</doc>
<doc id="146611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146611" title="Clackmannanshire">
Clackmannanshire

Clackmannanshire is a British county and a council area in Scotland. It lies north of the River Forth, between Perthshire to the north and Fife to the south.
Clackmannanshire is the smallest county in the United Kingdom. The second smallest, Kinross-shire, lies net to it.
Some villages/places in the county: Clackmannan, Alloa, Dollar, Tillicoultry, Tullibody

</doc>
<doc id="146613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146613" title="Selby">
Selby

Selby is a town in North Yorkshire, England, UK. There was a great fire there in 1906. It is not far from the border with the East Riding of Yorkshire.

</doc>
<doc id="146614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146614" title="Category:Towns in North Yorkshire">
Category:Towns in North Yorkshire

Towns in North Yorkshire, England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146615" title="Goole">
Goole

Goole is a town and inland port in the East Riding of Yorkshire of England, UK. It is near to the border with North Yorkshire.

</doc>
<doc id="146617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146617" title="Category:Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire">
Category:Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire of England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146618" title="Burnley">
Burnley

Burnley is a town in Lancashire, England, UK. It is not far from the border with West Yorkshire.
Burnley is a large market town in the north west of England. It has a population of about 70,000. It lies approximately 34 km north of Manchester and 40 km east of Preston at the confluence of the River Calder and River Brun. Burnley grew larger during the industrial revolution when it was home to many cotton mills and was one of the world’s largest producers of cotton cloth.
Burnley lies along the M65, east of Accrington, Blackburn and Preston where it joins the M6. Lots of people use this motorway to go to these, and other large settlements like Manchester. It is surrounded by other small towns such as Padiham, Todmorden and Nelson. Many people come to Burnley from these settlements to shop and work. Burnley has a range of shops including:
Since the mills closed, Burnley has become one of the poorest towns in Britain. Houses in Burnley are on average the cheapest in the UK.
Burnley has produced many celebrities, including Ian McKellen and Ryan Simonds. 

</doc>
<doc id="146619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146619" title="Broadstairs">
Broadstairs

Broadstairs is a town in Kent, England, UK. It is between the bigger towns of Margate and Ramsgate.

</doc>
<doc id="146621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146621" title="Street, Somerset">
Street, Somerset

Street is a town in Somerset, England, UK. It is to the south of Glastonbury. The River Brue makes the boundary with Glastonbury.

</doc>
<doc id="146622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146622" title="Warminster">
Warminster

Warminster is a town in Wiltshire, South West England. It is to the south of Westbury and to the east of Frome.

</doc>
<doc id="146623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146623" title="Category:Towns in Wiltshire">
Category:Towns in Wiltshire

Towns in Wiltshire, England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146625" title="Wisbech">
Wisbech

Wisbech is a town in Cambridgeshire, England, United Kingdom. It is not far from the border with Norfolk. 

</doc>
<doc id="146626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146626" title="Category:Towns in Cambridgeshire">
Category:Towns in Cambridgeshire

Towns in Cambridgeshire, England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146628" title="Pant, Shropshire">
Pant, Shropshire

Pant is a town in Shropshire, England, UK. It is not far from the border with Powys in Wales.

</doc>
<doc id="146630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146630" title="Southport">
Southport

Southport is a coastal town in Merseyside, England, UK. It is on the border with Lancashire.

</doc>
<doc id="146632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146632" title="Category:Towns in Merseyside">
Category:Towns in Merseyside

Towns in Merseyside, England, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146642" title="Central">
Central

Central means the center of something.
It can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="146645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146645" title="National Hockey League rivalries">
National Hockey League rivalries

There have been many rivalries between teams in the National Hockey League (NHL). Rivalries have started up for many different reasons, the most common ones include: the teams being in the same area, knowing each other, violence during the game, and culture related reasons or national pride.

</doc>
<doc id="146650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146650" title="Puck">
Puck

Puck may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="146653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146653" title="Belves">
Belves

Belves is a commune in the Dordogne Department in the south-west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="146660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146660" title="Arrondissement of Tournon-sur-Rhône">
Arrondissement of Tournon-sur-Rhône

The arrondissement of Tournon-sur-Rhône is an arrondissement of France. It is part of the Ardèche "department". Its capital is the city of Tournon-sur-Rhône.
It is the most northern "arrondissement" of Ardèche. It has an area of , with a population of 135,088 inhabitants and a density of inhabitants/km².
When the Ardèche department was created on 4 March 1790, the "arrondissement" of Tournon-sur-Rhône (with the name of just Tournon) was part of that original department.
The "arrondissement" of Tournon-sur-Rhône is bordered to the north by the Loire department, to the northeast by the Isère department, to the east by the Drôme department, to the south by the "arrondissement" of Arrondissement of Privas, to the southwest by the "arrondissement" of Arrondissement of Largentière and to the west by the Haute-Loire department.
After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements".
In the "arrondissement" of Tournon-sur-Rhône, there are 6 cantons whose "communes" are in the "arrondissement": Annonay-1, Annonay-2, Guilherand-Granges, Lamastre, Sarras and Tournon-sur-Rhône. The Canton of Le Cheylard has 13 "communes" in the "arrondissement" of Privas and 33 in Tournon-sur-Rhône, and the Canton of La Voulte-sur-Rhône has 9 "communes" in Tournon-sur-Rhône and 8 in Privas.
The "arrondissement" of Tournon-sur-Rhône has 126 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):

</doc>
<doc id="146669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146669" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Welcome to PCA">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Welcome to PCA

"~~~ has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 28 December 2008 at 1:19 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="146676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146676" title="WWE Tribute to the Troops">
WWE Tribute to the Troops

The WWE Tribute to the Troops is a televised event held every year since 2005 by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in December around Christmas and Hanukkah. The wrestlers and employees of the WWE travel to Iraq and Afghanistan to honor the United States military. The event features wrestlers from "Raw", "SmackDown", and "Extreme Championship Wrestling" (ECW) brands competing in matches against each other. They hold a televised episode of "Raw" on an open field for any troop member to attend for free. Along the travel, wrestlers and employees stop at autograph sessions and local hospitals to visit those who fight and may have been injured in war. Walter Reed Army Medical Center and Bethesda Naval Hospital are among the hospitals visited by the WWE employees. The WWE most recently held its fifth annual event, and has their next visit planned for December 2008.
In 2004, USO of Metropolitan Washington awarded the WWE the first "Legacy of Hope" award for their extensive support of their troops and the USO’s Operation Care Package program. In 2006, WWE received the "Secretary of Defense Exceptional Public Service" award. It was presented to WWE Chairman, Vince McMahon and other wrestlers. Upon receiving the award, McMahon handed it to wrestler, John "Bradshaw" Layfield (JBL), noting that the idea of the Tribute to the Troops was his original idea. WWE also received recognition from General Casey, the Commander of Multinational Forces Iraq. The WWE generally stays for three days.
Overall, WWE has traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan six consecutive times since 2003. The events are held in December every year, as they are intended to be a holiday treat for the troops. Not every WWE wrestler and employee attends the trips, but any wrestler willing to go may attend, with their brand not considered a factor.

</doc>
<doc id="146678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146678" title="Bruce Gamble">
Bruce Gamble

Bruce George Gamble (May 24, 1938 – December 30, 1984) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played 10 season in the NHL between 1962 and 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="146680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146680" title="1937–38 NHL season">
1937–38 NHL season

The 1937–38 NHL season was the 21st season of the National Hockey League (NHL). Eight teams each played 48 games. The Chicago Black Hawks were the Stanley Cup winners as they beat the Toronto Maple Leafs three games to one in the final series.
"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes"
<br>
"Note: Teams that qualified for the playoffs are highlighted in bold"
"Note: GP = Games played, G = Goals, A = Assists, PTS = Points, PIM = Penalties in minutes"

</doc>
<doc id="146682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146682" title="Category:1938 in ice hockey">
Category:1938 in ice hockey


</doc>
<doc id="146683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146683" title="Category:1938 in sports">
Category:1938 in sports


</doc>
<doc id="146693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146693" title="Kenneth Freeman">
Kenneth Freeman

Kenneth "Poppi" Freeman (d. May 13, 1985) was a street vendor from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania who sold newspapers along with Billy Cook. He is known for being an important suspect in the Mumia Abu-Jamal case (the murder of Daniel Faulkner). Cynthia White, a key witness, said that Freeman was present, but did not name him. At the time of the crime, Freeman was a front passenger in Billy Cook's Volkswagen. In two different lineups done to determine the killer, Cynthia White picked him. Billy Cook, the brother of Abu-Jamal (Wesley Cook), claimed later that Freeman personally confessed to him as being armed and shooting Faulkner. Arnold Beverly, in an affidavit where he confessed to the murder, named "another guy" as a shooter. Some witnesses testified that they saw a man with a green army jacket going away from the crime scene. Billy Cook said that Kenneth Freeman was wearing a green army jacket.
Freeman was reportedly in Germany in the Army, and usually wore the jacket.
One important contradiction is the fact that Cynthia White picked Freeman out of a lineup as the killer, but later changed her testimony to fit the prosecution's story. This can be explained by her admission that police bribed her to do so, so that she could legally work as a prostitute. That leads to another important inconsistency, which is that Yvette Williams, someone who White knew personally, said that White told her that she did not see the actual killer, which means it was not possible for her to identify Freeman as the killer, unless he confessed to her personally. 
On May 13, 1985, Kenneth Freeman was found dead in an empty area, handcuffed, bound, and naked, his death listed as "natural causes". J. Patrick O'Connor, in his book "The Framing of Mumia Abu-Jamal", says that "[h]is body was found bound, gagged, and naked in a vacant lot". 

</doc>
<doc id="146694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146694" title="Falsifiability">
Falsifiability

Falsifiability is the capacity to prove something is not correct. 
Scientists make hypotheses and theories about their fields of study. At the start, they hope their hypothesis or theory is true but they and other scientists will use the scientific method to try and prove it false. Falsifiability (or refutability) means that a theory or hypothesis can be proved wrong because it failed a critical test or experiment.
A famous example in the 20th century was the expedition led by Arthur Eddington to Principe Island in Africa in 1919 to record the positions of stars around the Sun during a solar eclipse. The observation of star positions showed that the apparent star positions close to the Sun were changed. In effect, the light passing the Sun was pulled towards the sun by gravitation. This confirmed predictions of gravitational lensing made by Albert Einstein in the general theory of relativity, published in 1915. Eddington's observations were considered to be the first solid evidence in favour of Einstein's theory. Had the observations resulted differently, this would have counted against Einstein's theory, and perhaps refuted it.
Karl Popper had the opinion that only theories that are falsifiable are scientific. Falsifiability is then a line between science and other kinds of knowledge: if it can be refuted, it is science; it if cannot, then it is not science. Many working scientists think Popper was right.
Not everyone agreed with this: Pierre Duhem and Paul Feyerabend had different ideas. Feyerabend's "Against method" (1975) argued that there was no one scientific method. Instead, "whatever works, works" and "anything goes". This is called "epistemological anarchy". 
Duham's idea was more subtle. He thought that for any given set of observations there is a huge and uncountable number of explanations. According to Duhem, an experiment in physics is not just an observation, but an interpretation of observations by means of a theoretical framework. Furthermore, no matter how well one constructs one's experiment, it is impossible to subject an isolated single hypothesis to an experimental test. Instead, it is a whole interlocking group of hypotheses, background assumptions, and theories that is tested. This thesis has come to be known as holism. According to Duhem, it makes crucial experiments impossible.
There are some other problems with falsification:

</doc>
<doc id="146703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146703" title="Kenosha, Wisconsin">
Kenosha, Wisconsin

Kenosha is a city in Kenosha County in the state of Wisconsin. It is part of the Chicago Metropolitan Area, but is nearer to Milwaukee than it is to Chicago. It is the fourth biggest city in the state after Milwaukee, Madison, and Green Bay.

</doc>
<doc id="146704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146704" title="Locality of reference">
Locality of reference

Locality of reference is a phenomenon that can be seen in Computer science. It says that the same value, or the place where it is stored is accessed often. There are two different kinds of locality of reference:
There are many reasons why locality of reference occurs:
Programs can be optimised in certain ways, to make them run faster:

</doc>
<doc id="146705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146705" title="Kenosha County, Wisconsin">
Kenosha County, Wisconsin

Kenosha County is a county in the U.S. State of Wisconsin. It is in the far southeast of the state, and faces east onto Lake Michigan. Its county seat is Kenosha. It was founded in 1850.

</doc>
<doc id="146706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146706" title="Tape drive">
Tape drive

A tape drive or streamer is a component that is often attached to a computer. It is used to write data to magnetic tape or to read data from it. Usually people use it to do backups. Tape drives are different from hard drives in that the access to the data is sequential (in order). This means to read a certain part of data, all the data before it needs to be read as well. Also tape drives are slow, compared to hard drives. Current capacities range from tens of gigabytes to almost a terabyte, per cartridge.

</doc>
<doc id="146708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146708" title="Cache algorithm">
Cache algorithm

A Cache algorithm is an algorithm used to manage a cache or group of data. When the cache is full, it decides which item should be deleted from the cache. The word "hit rate" describes how often a request can be served from the cache. The term latency describes for how long a cached item can be obtained. Cache alorithms are a trade-off between hit-rate and latency.
Other things to consider:
Various algorithms also exist to maintain cache coherency. This applies only to situation where "multiple" independent caches are used for the "same" data (for example multiple database servers updating the single shared data file).

</doc>
<doc id="146709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146709" title="Quincy, Massachusetts">
Quincy, Massachusetts

Quincy is a city in Norfolk County in the U.S. State of Massachusetts. It is part of Metropolitan Boston. It is named after Colonel John Quincy, who was Abigail Adams' mother's father. Quincy also had Adams' son, John Quincy Adams, named after him. It is the birthplace of John Adams, the second U.S. President, and Adams' son, John Quincy Adams, the sixth U.S. President. It was settled in 1625 and officially founded in 1792.

</doc>
<doc id="146718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146718" title="Edward Rappaport">
Edward Rappaport

Edward N. "Ed" Rappaport, Ph.D. is the acting director of the National Hurricane Center. He replaced former director Bill Proenza on July 9, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="146719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146719" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Lixion Avila">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Lixion Avila

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 28 December 2008 at 3:38 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="146721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146721" title="Live from Le Cabaret">
Live from Le Cabaret

Live from Le Cabaret is a hit live studio album by Rock-Pop band "Maroon 5". The album was exclusively released on iTunes on July 8, 2008. 
This album was released on July 8, 2008. It was recorded in Montreal, Quebec. The album was originally 1:05:37 long. The album is the third known recorded by Maroon 5. 
The songs performed on "Live from Le Cabaret" are songs from Maroon 5's past studio albums. Songs from their debut studio album called "Songs About Jane" like "Harder to Breathe", "This Love", "She Will Be Loved", "Shiver", and "Sweetest Goodbye". Songs are also included from Maroon 5's second hit studio album called "It Won't Be Soon Before Long" like "Makes Me Wonder", "Little of Your Time", "If I Never See Your Face Again", and more. 

</doc>
<doc id="146722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146722" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Joint Typhoon Warning Center">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Joint Typhoon Warning Center

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 28 December 2008 at 3:42 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="146724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146724" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Kwajalein">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Kwajalein

"An editor has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Sunday, 28 December 2008 at 3:48 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="146726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146726" title="Thermodynamic entropy">
Thermodynamic entropy

Thermodynamic entropy is a measure of how organized or disorganized energy is present in a system of atoms or molecules. It is measured in joules of energy per unit kelvin. Entropy is an important part of the third law of thermodynamics.
Imagine that a group of molecules has ten units of energy. If the energy in those molecules is perfectly organized, then the molecules can do ten units of work. However, if the energy became less organized (that is, the entropy increased), the molecules might only be able to do six units of work, even though they still have ten units of energy in them.
When total entropy is reached, there is no more energy to spend. A good example of this is a cup of tea. Now suppose your cup of tea is hot. The tea has a lot of energy compared to the room the tea is in. Over time the heat in the tea will spread into the room. The tea will become colder. This is because the energy (heat) in the tea escapes into the surrounding area. Once the tea has gone cold, there is no more heat that can be spread. The tea has thus reached total entropy.
There are two types of "rooms" we recognize when we are talking about entropy: An "open system" and a "closed system". The former means that energy (such as heat) can freely flow into and out of the room. A closed system means that the room is closed off from the outside; no energy can go in or out.
In the case of the tea, the room was a closed system; it had no means for energy to enter. But we can also make it an open system by placing a stove in the room. If we turn on the stove, we can use the heat from the stove to reheat the cup of tea. New usable energy has been brought into the environment. The entropy has thus decreased. The heat that went from the stove into the tea can then again escape into the room again until total entropy has been reached. This is what the second law of thermodynamics describes.
A real life example of an open system is the Earth. The surface gets a lot of energy from the Sun every day. This allows plants to grow and water to stay liquid. If we took away the Sun, plants would die and water would freeze because the surface of our planet would be too cold.

</doc>
<doc id="146730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146730" title="Cornell University">
Cornell University

Cornell University ( ) is in Ithaca, New York, United States. It is a private land-grant university, receiving annual funding from the State of New York for certain educational missions. Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White co-founded it in 1865 by sponsoring a bill in the New York State Legislature to designate it as New York's land grant college. The university was intended to teach and make contributions in all fields of knowledge–from the classics to the sciences and from the theoretical to the applied. This goal was uncommon in 1865. The goal is stated in Cornell's motto, an 1865 Ezra Cornell quotation: "I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study." Since its founding, Cornell has also been a co-educational, secular institution where admission is offered irrespective of gender, religion or race.
The university has seven undergraduate colleges and seven graduate divisions at its main Ithaca campus, with each college and division defining its own admission standards and academic programs in near autonomy. The university also administers two satellite medical campuses, one in New York City and one in Education City, Qatar. Cornell is one of two private land grant universities, and its seven undergraduate colleges include three state-supported statutory or contract colleges. As a land grant college, it also operates a cooperative extension outreach program in every county of New York.
Cornell counts more than 255,000 living alumni, 31 Marshall Scholars, 28 Rhodes Scholars and 41 Nobel laureates as affiliated with the university. It has 13,000 undergraduate and 6,000 graduate students from all 50 states and 122 countries.
Cornell's athletics teams are called the Big Red, and they have 36 varsity teams. They play against other teams in the Ivy League.
Cornell is divided into colleges. Each operates independently and has its own faculty and admission process: The "statutory" or "contract" colleges (which receive direct funding from the New York state government) have "New York State" in their name. Residents of New York who are enrolled in these colleges pay less tuition than other students at the university. Cornell calls its other colleges "endowed colleges".
The four statutory colleges are also units of the State University of New York.
Cornell also had two other colleges that closed. The New York State College of Forrestry closed in 1903. The Nursing School closed in 1979.
Cornell, a research university, produces the fourth largest number of graduates in the world who go on to pursue PhDs in engineering or the natural sciences at American institutions. It is also fifth in the world in producing graduates who pursue PhDs at American institutions in any field. Research is a central element of Cornell's mission. In 2009 Cornell spent $671 million on science and engineering research and development. This makes it the 16th highest in the United States.
For the 2004–05 fiscal year, the university spent $561.3 million on research. Of Cornell's units, the largest amount of this funding went to the colleges of Medicine ($164.2 million), Agriculture and Life Sciences ($114.5 million), Arts and Sciences ($80.3 million), and Engineering ($64.8 million). The money comes largely from federal sources, with federal investment of $381.0 million. The federal agencies that invest the most money are the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation that make up, respectively, 51.4% and 30.7% of all federal investment in the university. Cornell was on the top-ten list of U.S. universities receiving the most patents in 2003, and was one of the nation's top five institutions in forming start-up companies. In 2004–05, Cornell received 200 invention disclosures, filed 203 U.S. patent applications, completed 77 commercial license agreements, and distributed royalties of more than $4.1 million to Cornell units and inventors.
Since 1962, Cornell has been involved in unmanned missions to Mars. In the 21st century, Cornell had a hand in the Mars Exploration Rover Mission. Cornell's Steve Squyres, Principal Investigator for the Athena Science Payload, led the selection of the landing zones and requested data collection features for the Spirit and Opportunity rovers. Jet Propulsion Laboratory engineers took those requests and designed the rovers to meet them. The rovers, both of which have operated long past their original life expectancies, are responsible for the discoveries that were awarded 2004 Breakthrough of the Year honors by "Science". Control of the Mars rovers has shifted between NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Caltech and Cornell's Space Sciences Building. Further, Cornell researchers discovered the rings around the planet Uranus. Also, Cornell built and operated the world's largest and most sensitive radiotelescope in Arecibo, Puerto Rico.
In 1952, John O. Moore at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory began the Automotive Crash Injury Research project. (In 1972, the lab was separated from the University as Calspan Corporation.) It pioneered the use of crash testing, originally using corpses rather than dummies. The project discovered that improved door locks, energy-absorbing steering wheels, padded dashboards, and seat belts could prevent an extraordinary percentage of injuries. The project led Liberty Mutual to fund the building of a demonstration Cornell Safety Car in 1956, which received national publicity and influenced carmakers. Carmakers soon started their own crash-test laboratories and gradually adopted many of the Cornell innovations. Other ideas, such as rear-facing passenger seats, never found favor with carmakers or the public.
In 1984, the National Science Foundation began work on establishing five new supercomputer centers, including the Cornell Center for Advanced Computing, to provide high-speed computing resources for research within the United States. In 1985, a team from the National Center for Supercomputing Applications began the development of NSFNet, a TCP/IP-based computer network that could connect to the ARPANET, at the Cornell Center for Advanced Computing and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. This high-speed network, unrestricted to academic users, became a backbone to which regional networks would be connected. Initially a 56-kbit/s network, traffic on the network grew exponentially; the links were upgraded to 1.5 Mbit/s T1s in 1988 and to 45 Mbit/s in 1991. The NSFNet was a major milestone in the development of the Internet and its rapid growth coincided with the development of the World Wide Web.
Cornell scientists have researched the fundamental particles of nature for more than 70 years. Cornell physicists, such as Hans Bethe, contributed not only to the foundations of nuclear physics but also participated in the Manhattan Project. In the 1930s, Cornell built the second cyclotron in the United States. In the 1950s, Cornell physicists became the first to study synchrotron radiation. During the 1990s, the Cornell Electron Storage Ring, beneath Alumni Field, was the world's highest-luminosity electron-positron collider. After building the synchrotron at Cornell, Robert R. Wilson took a leave of absence to become the founding director of Fermilab, which involved designing and building the Tevatron, the largest accelerator in the United States. Cornell's accelerator and high-energy physics groups are involved in the design of the proposed International Linear Collider and plan to participate in its construction and operation. The International Linear Collider, to be completed in the late 2010s, will complement the Large Hadron Collider and shed light on questions such as the identity of dark matter and the existence of extra dimensions.
In the area of humanities and social sciences, Cornell is best known for being one of the world's greatest centers for the study of Southeast Asia. The Southeast Asia Program (SEAP) at Cornell is designated as a National Resource Center (NRC) by the United States Department of Education 2010–2014. Therefore, the SEAP is nationally prominent in promoting advanced foreign language training, area and international knowledge in the liberal arts and applied discipline focused on Southeast Asia. The George McTurnan Kahin Center for Advanced Research on Southeast Asia is in the historic "Treman House." The George McTurnan Kahin Center is home to SEAP graduate students, visiting fellows and scholars, faculty members, and SEAP's Publication and Outreach offices.

</doc>
<doc id="146733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146733" title="Bolognese sauce">
Bolognese sauce

Bolognese sauce is a sauce made with meat that is then mixed with pasta before eating. It is called "Ragù alla bolognese" in Italy. The sauce came from Bologna in Italy.
Most Italian people eat their Bolognese sauce with "tagliatelle", a broad, flat type of pasta. It can also be served with ribbon or tube shaped pasta.
In 1982, the Bolognese delegation, said that the recipe must only be made of beef, pancetta (a type of bacon), onions, carrots, celery, tomato paste, meat broth, red wine and milk or cream. There are different recipes of Bolognese sauce. Some of the recipes contain chopped pork or pork sausage. Mushrooms are sometimes added.
Spaghetti Bolognese is popular outside of Italy where the sauce is put on a plate of spaghetti with a little bit of grated cheese put on. In China Bolognese sauce is served with noodles and it is called Chinese spaghetti.
However, these different ways of making the recipe are never eaten in Bologna. They do use the recipe together with béchamel sauce to make lasagna.

</doc>
<doc id="146735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146735" title="Lixion Avila">
Lixion Avila

Dr. Lixion Avila is a weather forecaster with the National Hurricane Center (NHC). He has been a senior hurricane specialist.

</doc>
<doc id="146736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146736" title="Category:Meteorologists">
Category:Meteorologists


</doc>
<doc id="146737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146737" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/QandA/User:Yotcmdr">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/QandA/User:Yotcmdr

Welcome to another QandA column! This time I interview ! Lets read all about him...
----
Thanks Yotty! Look out for more QandA interviews soon, "including mine!" 17:52, 21 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="146741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146741" title="Pug">
Pug

The pug is a type of dog with a wrinkly face. It also has a curled tail, and pug puppies are called puglets. The pug has a square, muscular body with a large head, big eyes, and small ears. They have often been described as "multum in parvo", which means "much in little", referring to the pug's character and size. Pugs came originally from China, but they became popular in England, Ireland, and Scotland.
Pugs are often liked most for their curly tails, compact body, a deep chest, and strong muscles. There are two different types of a Pug's ears, "rose" and "button". "Rose" ears are smaller than the "button" ears and are folded up instead of on the side of the head. Most people prefer "button" style Pugs. Pugs have strong, straight legs and laid back shoulders. Their feet are not as large as a hare's foot, but they are not as round as that of a cat, either. They have toes that are split up perfectly, and their nails are all black. The lower teeth normally grow farther out than the upper teeth, so they meet in an under-bite.
The coat of pugs can be a lot of different colors, including fawn, apricot, silver, or black. A very rare pug is white. The fur color may be white due to albinism. There is also a smutty fawn pug, which has a very dark head and dark forelegs. The tail usually curls at the hip.
Different coat types shed differently, but they all shed year-round. The pug who has a fawn color sheds the most. Grooming their fur helps prevent too much shedding.
The pug is very strong-willed, but does not act aggressively unless provoked to a high degree. Pugs are well kept for families with children. They can be quiet and nice but also funny according to the owner's mood. They are also good at guarding the house.
Pugs came from China, as most high people of China kept them as pets during the Shang Dynasty (before 400 BCE).
In East China, they were known as the "Lo-Chiang-Sze" or "Foo". In the early 551 BCE, Confucius described the pug as a "short mouthed dog". After that, pugs became popular in Tibet, especially for monks. Then, pugs became known toward Japan and then Europe. The pug's origin is unknown because the first Emperor of China destroyed everything related to the pug in his reign. 
Chinese Fu-Dogs, also called Lion-Dogs or Fo-Dogs, were thought of as brave dogs who were skilled at guarding, so statues of them were placed outside the temples.
The Dutch East India Company imported the pug first in the late 16th and 17th centuries. Later, in 1572, a pug named Pompey saved the Prince of Orange by warning him when the Spaniards came. William III and Mary II also took a pug with them when they were going from Netherlands to England for the seat of the throne in 1688.
The pug was also becoming famous in other European countries as well. The Spanish painter, Goya, painted pugs in Spain and Italy sitting beside the coachmen of the rich. They were used as guard dogs and to find animals or people.
After that, pugs began to become popular in France. A pug named Fortune was a messenger between Joséphine de Beauharnais and her family while she was in prison. In Italy, the pug was becoming famous also. A Mrs. Piozzi wrote in her journal that "every carriage I meet here has a pug in it".
In 19th century England, Queen Victoria was a very sincere lover of pugs. She had many pet pugs, such as Olga, Pedro, Minka, Fatima, and Venus.
The pug finally arrived in the United States during the 19th century and soon became popular there as well. Many pugs won dog shows, and soon the Pug Dog Club was founded in 1931.
Because pugs do not have long snouts, they can get eye diseases. They also cannot breathe well, because passages for oxygen are very small and they cannot regulate their temperature with their tongue well. A pug's normal body temperature is between and . If the temperature rises to , they need to cool down immediately because they cannot cool themselves enough. If the temperature reaches , their organs can fail..net
Pugs that live by themselves can have the problem of overweight, although this can be helped by exercising and eating healthy food..net
Pugs can also be hurt by "necrotizing meningoencephalitis" (NME). NME is an inflammation of the brain and meninges. It is also known as "pug dog encephalitis" (PDE). There is no known cure or explanation for NME, although most people believe it is a disease that dogs may inherit from their mother or father. All dogs usually die within a few months after this disease, which usually happens from 6 months to 7 years of age..net
Pugs can also get a serious disease in their spine..net
Because pugs have wrinkles on their faces, owners must clean the folded part of their skin. Hip dysplasia is another major problem for pugs. About 63.8% of pugs were caught with hip dysplasia..net
When pugs get excited, they begin to "reverse sneeze", in which they will breathe in short, quick breaths. "Reverse sneezing" is usually not harmful to the pug. It can be helped by massaging the dog's throat or covering its nose to make it breathe instead with its mouth..net
Pugs have come out in television and film, such as Frank the Pug in the film "Men in Black" and the follow-up series. Other films that have pugs include "12 Rounds", "Marie Antoinette (2006 film)", and Disney's film about "Pocahontas". They have also appeared on television, in shows like "The West Wing".
Pugs have also appeared in many fictional books, like Lady Bertram's pug in "Mansfield Park" and in the book "Pugs: God's Little Weirdos".
Famous people who own pugs include broadcaster Jonathan Ross and actress Jessica Alba.

</doc>
<doc id="146749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146749" title="Category:Forensics">
Category:Forensics


</doc>
<doc id="146750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146750" title="Command economy">
Command economy

A command economy, or a planned economy, is where the big decisions are made at the centre by the government.
In an economic system the main decisions are, for example, allocating resources like labour, capital and oil. Prices, too, are controlled. In a command economy, these decisions are taken by a central body, usually the government. This system contrasts that of a market economy where all the economic actors involved take decisions. The benefit of a planned economy is that the planning body has (supposedly) perfect information, and can make a better decision than in the market economy. Countries at war sometimes command their people to make things the war needs.
Friedrick von Hayek, a 20th-century economist, pointed out that it is not possible for the planning body to have perfect information. For this reason, the decisions taken by this body will be wrong, as it is not possible to foresee all possible events. Once the decision has been taken there is only a small margin to vary the production; this means that a planned economy cannot adapt to a change as rapidly as a market economy. According to Ludwig von Mises, there is no competition, and there are no reasons to innovate or to look for different solutions to a problem, in a planned economy.
Communism is a type of government system that would use a command economy. Countries with command economies include Burma, Cuba, Iran, Liberia, and North Korea. Formerly, the Soviet Union and China were command economies, and are now mixed economies where the government still has a major influence.

</doc>
<doc id="146753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146753" title="Charles Ives">
Charles Ives

Charles Edward Ives (October 30, 1874 – May 19, 1954) was an American composer. He experimented with new ways of composing which many people did not understand at the time. These became more widely used later in the century. He used dissonant (harsh) sounding intervals and techniques such as polytonality (playing in several keys at once), polyrhythms (several rhythms at once) and polytextures (several textures at once). Very few people listened to his music at the time he was writing it. Only much later did musicians start to realize the importance of his work. Ives earned his living as an insurance agent. He composed in his spare time.
Charles Ives was born in Danbury, Connecticut. His father George Ives, was a U.S. Army bandleader in the American Civil War. His mother was a singer. His father taught him a great deal about the music and encouraged him to experiment with new sounds. As well as teaching him counterpoint and introducing him to the music of J.S.Bach he trained his son’s musical ear by getting him to sing a tune in one key while he played the accompaniment in another. In this way the young Charles became used to modern sounds that were quite different from traditional, Romantic music. Charles also listened in Danbury town square to his father's marching band and other bands that were playing on other sides of the square, so that he heard a mixture of several pieces of music at the same time. His father also taught him the music of Stephen Foster. 
Ives became a church organist at the age of 14 and wrote various hymns and songs for church services, including his "Variations on 'America' ". At the same time he also enjoyed sport and was good at baseball, football and tennis.
Ives spent four years at Yale University. His teacher Horatio Parker was very good and taught him important basic techniques of composing, but he could not understand some of things that Ives was writing in his music. Ives got annoyed when his teacher told him he could not finish a section of music on a dissonant chord, but Ives liked it like that. The choirmaster at the Centre Church where Ives played the organ was John Griggs. He had more understanding of what Ives was trying to do. It was a terrible blow to Charles when his father died on 4 November 1894. He always had a huge admiration for his father who had encouraged him in his musical experiments. Charles kept busy composing. He did not do any sport at Yale because his father had forbidden him to take part in sport so that he would spend his time on studying. By the time Charles graduated he had composed more than 40 songs, several marches, overtures, anthems and organ pieces, a string quartet and a symphony. However, most people thought of him as the composer of a simple waltz tune called "The Bells of Yale". 
After his studies at Yale Ives continued to work as a church organist while working for an insurance firm. He was very good at his job and became very well known in the insurance business. Some of his business friends were often surprised to find out that he was also a composer. 
In 1907, Ives had his first "heart attack". These attacks may have been more to do with his imagination. When he was better he composed more than ever before. He married in 1908. After several heart attacks in 1918 he composed very little. He stopped composing altogether in 1926. His health problems continued, and he retired from the insurance business in 1930. He spent some time revising works he had written early, but never wrote any more new pieces.
Ives died in 1954 in New York City at 12:32 PM
Ives published more than 100 of his songs. He was a very good pianist and the piano parts are often quite difficult. They include bitonality and pantonality.. Although he is now best known for his orchestral music, he composed two string quartets and other chamber music. His organ piece "Variations on "America"" (1891), takes the tune "My Country, 'Tis of Thee" (which is the same tune as "God Save the Queen ") and changes it in several amusing variations, using a march, a ragtime and bitonality. it was not published until 1949. The variations differ sharply: a running line, a set of close harmonies, a march, a polonaise, and a ragtime allegro; the interludes are one of the first uses of bitonality.
His "Symphony Number 1" was fairly traditional, but "Symphony Number 2" is much more modern sounding, even ending with a dissonant chord with 11 notes.
In 1902 he gave up his organ job. He left all his best anthems and organ music in the church library, and these were thrown out in 1915 when the church moved so most of them are lost.
"Central Park in the Dark" is a piece for orchestra which describes the mysterious, quiet park and then sounds of music coming from nearby nightclubs in Manhattan (playing the popular music of the day, ragtime, quoting "Hello My Baby" and even Sousa's "Washington Post March"). 
Perhaps the piece which is most often heard today is the short fanfare "The Unanswered Question" (1908), written for the very unusual combination of trumpet, four flutes, and string orchestra. The strings, playing from behind the stage, play very slow, chorale-like music throughout the piece while several times the trumpet (playing from behind the audience) plays a short group of notes that Ives described as "the eternal question of existence". Each time the trumpet is answered with harsh outbursts from the flutes (onstage) — apart from the last one. That is the question that is left unanswered. Musicians often have discussions about what the real meaning of the piece is.
Another well-known orchestral work is "Three Places in New England". His best-known piano work is his "Concord Sonata". Ives often liked to quote bits of other pieces, and in this piano sonata he quotes the famous opening of Beethoven's "Fifth Symphony". It also has an interesting example of one of Ives' experiments: in the second movement, he tells the pianist to use a 14¾ in (37.5 cm) piece of wood to make a thick but soft cluster chord. The sonata is one of the best piano works of the 20th century. 
One of his most interesting works is the his "Fourth Symphony" (1910–16) written for a huge orchestra. The last movement is like a fight between discord and traditional tonal music. The piece ends quietly with just the percussion playing at a distance. This symphony seems to say everything that Ives had been trying to do in music. It was not until 1965 that a complete performance of the symphony was given. 
Ives’ music only gradually began to get well known during the 1930s and into the 1940s. Schoenberg recognized his importance. In 1951, Leonard Bernstein conducted the first performance of Ives' Second Symphony in a broadcast concert by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. He recorded a lot of his music and even played some in a television programme for young people.

</doc>
<doc id="146755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146755" title="Flageolet">
Flageolet

A flageolet is an old woodwind instrument. It belongs to the end-blown flute family. It started to be used in the 16th century for folk music. Soon there were two kinds: the French kind and the English. The French flageolet had four holes in the front and two in the back. The English flageolet had six holes in the front.
The flageolet is quite similar to the recorder. In the 18th century it changed because a narrow mouthpiece made of ivory or bone was added at the top. This led into another section which bulged out. There was a soft sponge at the end of this. Sometimes this instrument was called the "flautino". The piccolo developed from it. Another instrument that developed from it was the tin whistle.
Henry Purcell and George Frideric Handel both wrote pieces for it. 
Small versions of this instrument, called bird flageolets were also made and were used for teaching birds to sing. 
The illustrated Encyclopedia of Musical Instruments; ISBN 3-8331-2195-5

</doc>
<doc id="146757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146757" title="Paris Opéra">
Paris Opéra

Paris Opéra or the Opéra National de Paris is the most important opera company of France. It stages performances at the Opéra Bastille and Opéra Garnier in Paris. The theatre is also the home of the Paris Opéra Ballet.
Other opera houses in Paris are the Théâtre du Châtelet, Opéra-Comique and Théâtre des Champs-Élysées.
King Louis XIV allowed Jean-Baptiste Lully to start the "Académie Royale de Musique" in 1672. This was an organization that included opera, ballet, and music. The ballet company was part of the opera company. Then Louis XIV started the ballet school, called "Académie Royale de Danse", in 1661. From 1671 until Lully's death in 1687, the school was directed by the great dancing master Pierre Beauchamp, the man who set down the five positions of the feet. 
In 1713 King Louis XIV made the Opera company a state institution. There was a group of professional dancers called "Le Ballet de l'Opéra". From that time until 1875 they used lots of theatres, each one of which was destroyed by a fire. All these companies were called Paris Opéra or Opéra de Paris.
On 29 October 1873, the old "Paris Opéra", known as the "Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique", which had been used since 1821, was destroyed by a fire which burned for 27 hours. By 1875 the opera company moved to the new "Palais Garnier" which was part of the rebuilding of Paris by Emperor Napoleon III.
When the "Opéra Bastille" was built in 1989 the company chose it as their main theatre. 

</doc>
<doc id="146758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146758" title="Category:Opera companies">
Category:Opera companies


</doc>
<doc id="146762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146762" title="Faust">
Faust

Faust or Faustus is a character from German legendary stories. His name comes from a Latin word meaning "lucky". The legend is about a man called Faust. Faust wants to have knowledge. He meets the Devil. The Devil tells Faust he can have anything he wants. In return, the Devil says, Faust must give him his soul. Faust agrees, and the Devil lets Faust have a wonderful time, but in the end Faust has to go to Hell.
The story of Faust became famous all over Europe. Many writers from different countries wrote their own versions of the Faust story, e.g. Christopher Marlowe, Goethe, Mikhail Bulgakov, Thomas Mann. Many composers wrote music about Faust, e.g. Hector Berlioz, Franz Liszt, Charles Gounod and Ferrucio Busoni.
The adjective "Faustian" is used to describe a person who wants something so much that it leads them into trouble.
In the early versions of the Faust story: in ballads, dramas and puppet-plays, Faust is always damned (meaning he will have to go to Hell). This is because he prefers human knowledge instead of God’s knowledge. This was thought to be very bad at that time.
Some of the plays and comic puppet theatre from around the 16th century make up their own versions of the story. They often show Faust as a figure of vulgar fun. The story became popular in England when Christopher Marlowe wrote a play called The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus. But in Goethe's version of the story two centuries later, Faust is described as a well-educated man who wants more than just "meat and drink."

</doc>
<doc id="146763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146763" title="Robert Mulligan">
Robert Mulligan

Robert Mulligan (August 23, 1925 – December 20, 2008) was an Academy Award-nominated American movie and television director. He directed movies such as To Kill a Mockingbird and The Man in the Moon. 

</doc>
<doc id="146764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146764" title="Austin Motor Company">
Austin Motor Company

Austin was a British car manufacturing company that began production in 1905. The company merged with Morris in 1952, becoming the lead partner in British Motor Corporation. This became British Leyland and then Rover Group. They began phasing the brand out in 1987; by 1989 all Rover Group cars had been cleared of Austin branding. The name has now passed into the ownership of Nanjing Motor Corporation, who have stated an interest in reviving it.
The company was started in 1905 by Herbert Austin, originally making cars at a factory in Rotherham, Yorkshire before moving to Longbridge, Birmingham. In the First World War Austin made aircraft for the Army and Navy, it was this work which led to the rapid expansion of the company; following the war the company stopped making aircraft. The company became Britain's biggest car maker.
In 1952 Austin merged with its biggest rival Morris (founded by William Morris, afterwards Lord Nuffield), with Austin being the lead partner. This company was known as the British Motor Corporation (BMC). Following the merger with Morris, the model line up for Austin changed considerably. The most notable car to come from this era was the Austin Mini, this was also sold as a Morris Mini and was made up until 2000 (though not as an Austin after 1987). Austin enjoyed a favourable market share during the 1950s and 1960s.
In 1968 BMC merged with Leyland (Leyland, Standard and Triumph) to become British Leyland even though Leyland had been a much smaller firm. It was the British Leyland years that were perhaps the most difficult and in 1975 British Leyland was nationalised. Austin's market share fell, as did other marques within the company, leading to the phasing out of the Morris name plate in 1981. There were many strikes at British Leyland's factories, making British Leyland and other companies with the same problem, such as the Ford Motor Company unproductive compared to Japanese and European companied like Volkswagen. Many of the models in this era failed to sell well, either because they were old fashioned or deemed unreliable; the Austin Princess and the Austin Allegro were the only modern cars of this era, while the 1300, 1800 and Austin Maxi were all dated. The Princess and Allegro sold well, but both were saloons, and the only hatchback the company had was the Maxi, which wasn't a popular car.
British Leyland became the Rover Group in 1986. Despite the huge success of the Austin Metro, launched in 1980, there was trouble in the company. In the 1980s Austin sold the most cars in the British Leyland group, however when the company became Rover Group, a greater emphasis was placed on the more upmarket Rover name. In 1987 the company began phasing the name out and by 1989 it had been removed from all products.
The name now belongs to Nanjing Motor Corporation who have expressed an interest in reviving it. They currently make cars as MGs (the MG marque came from Morris and consisted of three sports cards MGA, MGB and MGC), however it intends to use this brand name for luxury cars and sports cars. Nanjing does not own the Rover name, so the Austin name is the most recent it has to use for its mainstream mass market cars.
The company's most famous models were the Austin Seven (1922-39), the Austin A30 (1951-56), the Austin A35 (1956-59), the Austin A55 Cambridge (1954-71), the Austin Mini (1959-2000 but only as an Austin until 1969), the Austin 1800 (1964-75), the Austin 1300 (1967-74), Austin Maxi (1969-81), Austin Allegro (1973-83), Austin Princess/Ambassador (1975-84), Austin Metro (1980-1998 but only as an Austin until 1987), Austin Maestro (1983-94), Austin Montego (1984-94).

</doc>
<doc id="146765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146765" title="Flag of Puerto Rico">
Flag of Puerto Rico

The flag of Puerto Rico consists of five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom) alternating with white; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side has a large, white, five-pointed star in the center.
The flag was created in 1892. In 1952, the flag became the official national flag of Puerto Rico. 

</doc>
<doc id="146767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146767" title="Crescent and star">
Crescent and star

The Islamic Crescent is a symbol consisting of a crescent with a star at the concave side. In its modern form, the star is usually shown with five points (though in earlier centuries a higher number of points was often used). The two signs together, or the crescent only, was long a symbol of Byzantium. Now it is often a symbol of Islam. It is seen on a number of different country flags such as Turkey.
Flag of Ottoman Empire was the first flag featuring a crescent with a star. Other states formerly part of the Ottoman Empire also used the symbol, so the symbol emerged into popular use.

</doc>
<doc id="146778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146778" title="Category:Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes">
Category:Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes


</doc>
<doc id="146794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146794" title="Cootamundra, New South Wales">
Cootamundra, New South Wales

Cootamundra is a town in New South Wales, Australia. In 2006 there were 5,566 people living in Cootamundra. It is on the Olympic Highway where it crosses the Muttama Creek, between Junee and Cowra. Cootamundra's railway station is on the main Melbourne-to-Sydney railway line.
Sir Donald Bradman AC, Australian cricketer said to be the greatest batsman of all time was born in Cootamundra. The town is very proud of Bradman, and uses this in signs and tourist information. The home where "The Don" was born is a fully restored visitor site open to the public seven days per week.
Cootamundra is the home of the Cootamundra Wattle (Acacia Baileyana). Every year there is a large 'Wattle Time' Festival (which happens when the wattle starts to bloom) with an art show and festivities.

</doc>
<doc id="146796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146796" title="Acacia baileyana">
Acacia baileyana

The Cootamundra Wattle is an Australian shrub or tree. It is in the Family Fabaceae. The tree's Latin name, "Acacia baileyana", is named after the botanist Frederick Manson Bailey. It is one of nearly 1000 species of "Acacia" found in Australia. The Cootamundra Wattle at first only came from a small area in southern New South Wales near Cootamundra. It has been widely planted all over Australia. In many areas of Victoria Cootamundra Wattle has become a weed. It is taking over from acacias that were only found in Victorian. 
Almost all wattles have cream to golden colored flowers. The small flowers are arranged in round to cylindrical clusters. Only the stamens, the male part of the flower, stick out. Many wattles have been planted in New Zealand.
"A. baileyana" is used in Europe in the cut flower industry. It is also used as food for bees in making honey. 
This plant is easy to grow. It can adapt and grow in different areas. Unfortunately it easily produces seeds and will start growing new plants in the surrounding area. It can also cross breed with other acacias, including the rare and endangered Sydney species "Acacia pubescens".
A low growing, weeping form, is being grown. The fine leaves of the original Cootamundra wattle is grey-green. A new type with blue-purple leaves, known as 'Purpurea' is very popular.

</doc>
<doc id="146797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146797" title="Kermanshah">
Kermanshah

Kermanshah or Kermashan (; ), is the capital city of Kermanshah Province, 525 km from Tehran in the western part of Iran and it is about 120 km from the border of Iraq. Kermanshah has a continental climate. The estimated population of the city is 822,921 (year 2005), and the majority of the inhabitants speak Persian as well as Kurdish. The religion of the people is diverse, but Muslims are leading in the number.

</doc>
<doc id="146799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146799" title="Category:Islands by country">
Category:Islands by country


</doc>
<doc id="146801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146801" title="Category:Islands by continent">
Category:Islands by continent


</doc>
<doc id="146824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146824" title="Rider Strong">
Rider Strong

Rider King Strong (born December 11, 1979) is an American movie and television actor. He became famous in the 1990s as the character Shawn Hunter in the television series "Boy Meets World".

</doc>
<doc id="146828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146828" title="Category:Islands of the United Kingdom">
Category:Islands of the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="146832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146832" title="John O'Meally">
John O'Meally

John O'Meally (1841 – 19 November 1863) was an Australian bushranger and criminal. He was one of Frank Gardiner's gang who robbed the gold escort coach at Eugowra. This was Australia's biggest gold robbery.
O'Meally worked as a stockman, looking after cattle and sheep on his father's farm, Arramagong Station in the Lachlan River valley. His father, Paddy O'Meally, also ran a shanty (a very basic hotel), called "The Weddin Inn", on Emu Creek. The inn was the only hotel in the district. John OMeally, and another one of Gardiner's gang, Alex Fordyce, sometimes worked at the shanty. The gold escort robbery was planned there.
On 15 June 1862 the gold escort coach that took the gold from the goldfields of Forbes to Bathurst was robbed. This was one of Australia's biggest robberies. O'Meally and several of his friends were in the gang led by Frank Gardiner. A week after the robbery the police, led by Sir Frederick Pottinger, captured two of the robbers, Henry Manns, and Charlie Gilbert. Charlie Gilbert was the brother of gang member John Gilbert. John Gilbert had nearly been captured but was able to escape. He went straight to "The Weddin Inn", and together with Ben Hall and O'Meally, captured the police and released the prisoners.
In July 1863, O'Meally and Gilbert tried to rob the bank at Carcoar in broad daylight. This is believed to be the first daylight bank robbery in Australia.
On 30 August 1863, O'Meally tried to rob John Barnes near Wallendbeen station (farm). Barnes owned shops in Cootamundra and Murrumburrah. O'Meally tried to take Barnes' saddle. Barnes rode off to try and get away, but O'Meally shot and killed him. Barnes is buried in the Cootamundra cemetery.
O'Meally was shot and killed while trying to rob Goimbla station (farm) near Eugowra, on 19 November 1863. This event became known as the "Battle of Goimbla." The Campbell family fought off the Ben Hall gang in during a two-hour battle. The National Museum of Australia has several items in its collection about the battle.
John O'Meally is buried in an unmarked grave in the Anglican cemetery at Gooloogong.

</doc>
<doc id="146847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146847" title="America's Next Top Model, Cycle 3">
America's Next Top Model, Cycle 3


</doc>
<doc id="146862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146862" title="Goethe's Faust">
Goethe's Faust

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's Faust is the most famous play in all German literature. It was published in two parts. Part One is very dramatic, and tells the main story. Part II is extremely long, and it is meant to be read rather than acted on stage. It is about Goethe’s philosophy as well as about history and politics.
Goethe’s "Faust" is a re-telling of the Faust legend which was very famous in Germany. The legend tells of a man called Faust who is tired of studying and wants to have the greatest possible happiness. The devil (usually called Mephistopheles, as he is in Goethe’s play) tells Faust he can help him to do this, but that in the end Faust will have to give him his soul and go with him to hell. Faust makes a pact (an agreement) with Mephistopheles who promises him all his soul can wish for: fine living, gold, women and honour. Faust signs the pact with his blood. Faust uses magic in the hope that it will tell him everything about life. However, in the end Mephistopheles wins his bet.
The subject of "Faust" occupied Goethe all his life. The name of Faust is mentioned in a comedy he wrote in 1769: “Die Mitschuldigen“. In 1773, when he was 24, he first read the poetry of Hans Sachs, the medieval German poet. He immediately started to imitate the rhythm of Sachs’s poetry. This rhythm is known as “Knittelvers”. It had 4 accented syllables in each line and an AABB or ABAB rhyming pattern, e.g.
In 1887, long after Goethe’s death, it was discovered that he had made a version of “Faust“ which he never published but later decided to rewrite. This version is known as the “Urfaust” (“Ur” means “original”, i.e. the “Original Faust”). It was written between 1772 and 1775. He changed a lot of it and it became “Faust Part I“. A fragment (small part of it) was published in 1790. Then he finished it in 1806, published it in 1808 and changed it for a new edition in 1829. Part 2 was finished in 1831, a few months before he died, and was not published until a few months after his death.
"Faust Part One" starts off in heaven. Mephistopheles makes a bet with God: he says that he can go down to earth and meet Faust and make him do bad things.
We then see Faust in his study. Faust is trying to get to know all possible things. He wants to know about science, humans and religion. He tries to use magic in order to understand everything there is to know, but he thinks he is not managing to do it. For a moment he thinks of killing himself, but then hears people celebrating Easter and decides to go for a walk with Wagner, his assistant. A poodle who has no home follows Faust back to his house.
In Faust’s study, the poodle changes into the devil (Mephistopheles). Faust makes an arrangement with the devil: the devil will do everything that Faust wants while he is here on earth, In exchange Faust will serve the devil in hell. Faust's arrangement is that if during the time while Mephistopheles is serving Faust, Faust is so pleased with anything the devil gives him that he wants to stay in that moment forever, he will die that very moment (in German he says: “Verweile doch, du bist so schön” – “Stay a while, you are so beautiful”. It is perhaps the most famous quotation in all German literature.)
Mephistopheles persuades Faust to sign the agreement with his own blood. Faust has a few adventures and then meets Margaret (also known as Gretchen). He loves her, and by offering her jewellery, and with help of a neighbour, Martha, Gretchen lets herself into Faust's arms. Faust and Gretchen want to sleep together, so Gretchen gives her mother a sleeping potion so that she does not see Faust. Faust and Gretchen sleep together. Gretchen’s mother dies of the potion. Gretchen discovers she is pregnant. Gretchen’s brother says Faust is bad and challenges him, but Faust kills him (with the devil’s help, of course). Gretchen has given birth to a baby, but she drowns it. She is found guilty of murder and is sent to prison. Faust tries to save her from death, but he cannot free her from prison. Finding that they cannot free her, Faust and the devil run away from the prison cell, while voices from heaven say that Gretchen shall be saved.
"Faust Part Two" is very different from Part One. It keeps referring to classical literature. The romantic story of the first Faust is forgotten, and Faust wakes in a field of fairies. He has many adventures. The piece is in five acts which each tell of different things. In the end Faust goes to heaven, because he loses only half the bet. Angels, who arrive as messengers of God’s mercy, say at the end of Act 5: "He who strives on and lives to strive/ Can earn redemption still" (i.e. anyone who tries hard in life can still be saved).
Goethe’s "Faust" had an enormous influence on all art in Western countries. In Germany many writers were fascinated by the legend. They often felt that Faust represented the spirit of the German people. Dramas, epic poems and novels were written about Faust. Composers wrote operas or orchestral music about him. Thomas Mann wrote a novel "Dr Faustus" which compares Faust’s pact with the devil to the way the German people supported Hitler.

</doc>
<doc id="146886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146886" title="Nitric acid">
Nitric acid

Nitric Acid (HNO) is a very corrosive and toxic strong acid that can cause severe burns. It is also known as aqua fortis. Nitric Acid is used in rocket fuels, to help make wood look older, and is used in explosives.
It can react with metals such as copper to produce a brown toxic gas called nitrogen dioxide. It is made by reaction of nitrogen dioxide with water.
In alchemy, it is known as aqua fortis, or strong water. It can dissolve silver but leaves gold unharmed, making it a good test for gold. The term acid test came from this test.

</doc>
<doc id="146887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146887" title="Killing of Peter Fechter">
Killing of Peter Fechter

Peter Fechter (14 January 1944 - 17 August 1962) is one of the best known victims of the Berlin Wall. Fechter was a bricklayer. Aged 18, he tried to cross the wall into the West, near Checkpoint Charlie, to live with his sister. He did this with his friend and colleague, Helmut Kulbeik. Both started to climb the wall at around 14:15. Kubelik was successful, and could escape. Fechter was hit by several gunshots, one of which pierced his lung, and fell back down, to what was called the "Death strip". He was unable to move, and started to cry for help. Crowds started to gather on both sides of the wall; on the east side, they were dispersed by police.
Police gathered on the west side threw medical kits to him; despite the crowd asking them, they would not do more. The DDR border guards did not do anything either; neither did the United States personnel on duty at the Checkpoint.
Fechter bled to death after about an hour. After reunification, two border police were found guilty of manslaughter. They were convicted and given suspended prison terms of 20 and 21 months respectively. Both had told the court they fired shots at Fechter, but did not want to kill him. The court also ruled that Fechter was killed by the shots, and not by the absence of aid. The evidence could not show who of three gunman (one had already died) was responsible for the bullet that killed Fechter.

</doc>
<doc id="146889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146889" title="Manchester Metrolink">
Manchester Metrolink

Manchester Metrolink (or usually just Metrolink) is the name of the tram system in Greater Manchester, England. The system is owned by Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM), which used to be called the Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive (GMPTE). It is operated under contract by the RATP Group.
The construction of Manchester's railway network in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries had created a lot of termini around the City Centre. These were not linked together. This left a large amount of Manchester disconnected from the railway network.
For many years there had been plans to connect Manchester's two main railway stations. These are Piccadilly and Victoria. In the late 1960s and early 1970s there were plans for a "Picc-Vic tunnel". This tunnel would carry main-line trains under the city centre. The proposal was abandoned because it would cost too much.
Metrolink was created by converting two British Rail lines serving the suburbs of Manchester, one to the town of Altrincham to the south, and another to the town of Bury to the north, to light rail. These two lines were joined up in Manchester city centre, where trams run on the roads, and had a short branch to Piccadilly railway station. This first section of the new system opened in 1992, and a newer line to Eccles opened in 2001.
Lots of extensions to the system have opened since then, with more that are currently being built or proposed. Metrolink now has lines that serve Didsbury, Ashton-under-Lyne, Oldham, Rochdale, MediaCityUK and Manchester Airport. These expansions increased the system's length from 37 km to 97 km with 99 stops. Sometime in 2017 there will be a second line through Manchester city centre serving Exchange Square, and another line towards the Trafford Centre shopping mall before the end of the decade. There are also plans for tram-train lines to Stockport and other places in Greater Manchester.

</doc>
<doc id="146892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146892" title="Nitrate">
Nitrate

Nitrate (NO) is a polyatomic ion. It is made up of one nitrogen and three oxygen atoms. It is part of many important molecules. Potassium nitrate is a common nitrate, used in fertilizers because plants need nitrates to live and grow. Some nitrates are explosive. People make large amounts of nitrates from ammonia. Nitrates are similar to nitrites. Many metal nitrates with thermal decomposition makes oxygen and metal nitrate.
Nitric acid has the formula HNO and has no overall charge, because the hydrogen ion is positive. 

</doc>
<doc id="146893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146893" title="Supertram (Sheffield)">
Supertram (Sheffield)

Supertram is a tram network in Sheffield, England. The track and connected items are owned by South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive (SYPTE). Stagecoach Group run and look after the vehicles, through their Stagecoach Supertram branded company.

</doc>
<doc id="146894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146894" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2008/December/Notdone">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2008/December/Notdone


</doc>
<doc id="146896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146896" title="Happy Xmas (War Is Over)">
Happy Xmas (War Is Over)

"Happy Xmas (War Is Over)" is a Christmas song by John Lennon, Yoko Ono and The Plastic Ono Band.
The song is a protest about the Vietnam War in 1969. It has become a Christmas standard and has appeared on several Christmas albums.

</doc>
<doc id="146897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146897" title="Nottingham Express Transit">
Nottingham Express Transit

Nottingham Express Transit (or in short NET) is a light-rail tramway in the Nottingham area in England. The first line opened to the public on 9 March 2004. It cost £200 million to construct. It took 16 years from the first idea of the system until it was built. It is operated by Nottingham Tram Consortium, a 50:50 partnership between Transdev and Nottingham City Transport.

</doc>
<doc id="146899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146899" title="Queanbeyan, New South Wales">
Queanbeyan, New South Wales

Queanbeyan is a city in New South Wales, Australia. It is also the local government area called Queanbeyan City Council. It is very close to the Australian federal capital city of Canberra. It is really now a part of the capital city as it is on the Australian Capital Territory border and is only from Canberra's CBD. The border itself is marked by a railway line. The Queanbeyan River flows through Queanbeyan, near the centre of the city.
The town grew from a farm owned by ex-convict inn keeper, Timothy Beard. It was on the banks of the Molonglo River. The original name was "Quinbean" which means "clear waters".
Queanbeyan became a township in 1838. There were about 50 people living there. Some of the important historic buildings still standing were built in the early days. Traces of gold were found in 1851. There were also some lead and silver mines. Settlers were often robbed by bushrangers including John Tennant, Jacky Jacky, Frank Gardiner and Ben Hall. In 1836, the government built a Post Office at Queanbeyan. 
The first bank was opened in Queanbeyan on 19 September, 1859. This was the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited which is now part of the National Australia Bank. "The Golden Age" now called "The Queanbeyan Age" was Queanbeyan's first newspaper started in 1860 by John Gale. In 1880 John James Wright, the first mayor of Queanbeyan, built a house on the banks of the Queanbeyan River. In 1982 house became the Queanbeyan Art Centre.
The railway reached Queanbeyan railway station in 1887 and it became the junction for the lines going to Canberra and Bombala. There are now two trains a day, the Countrylink Xplorer service between Canberra and Sydney.
Queanbeyan became an important country town, with 16 hotels and six flour mills powered by wind, water, horse and steam. Canberra was started as the national capital in 1911. There were no hotels, so people crossed the border to get a drink at Queanbeyan's hotels. When the Parliament moved to Canberra from Melbourne in 1926, Canberra got it's first hotel. 
Queanbeyan became a city on 7 July, 1972. From 1982 to 1989, the Canberra Raiders rugby league team played their home games in Queanbeyan, at Seiffert Oval.

</doc>
<doc id="146902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146902" title="Sarah Brightman">
Sarah Brightman

Sarah Brightman (born 14 August 1960) is an English classical crossover soprano, actress, songwriter and dancer.
She is the best-selling soprano of all times.

</doc>
<doc id="146905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146905" title="Philip IV of Spain">
Philip IV of Spain

Philip IV (, ; 8 April 1605 – 17 September 1665) was King of Spain between 1621 and 1665 He was also sovereign of the Spanish Netherlands and King of Portugal until 1640.
His daughter was Marie Thérèse of Austria, wife of Louis XIV. All but three of his children died in childhood. 

</doc>
<doc id="146906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146906" title="UTC+10">
UTC+10

UTC+10 means a time zone that is 10 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time or UTC. UTC is the standard time zone of the world. Timezones are often named by how many hours they are different from UTC time. For example, UTC -5 (United States east coast) is 5 hours behind UTC. 
The UTC+10 time zone covers the following the east coast of Australia, Papua New Guinea, Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands and parts of Russia. The map shows the time zone. There are differences with Daylight saving time:
In Australia UTC+10 is called Australian Eastern Standard Time or AEST.

</doc>
<doc id="146908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146908" title="Mount Erebus">
Mount Erebus

Mount Erebus is a volcano on Ross Island in Antarctica. It is the most southern active volcano in the world.
Erebus is high.
On November 28, 1979, an airplane, Air New Zealand Flight 901, crashed into Mount Erebus during a storm. All 257 people in the airplane died.

</doc>
<doc id="146909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146909" title="Air New Zealand Flight 901">
Air New Zealand Flight 901

Air New Zealand Flight 901 was a flight that operated from 1977 to 1979. The flight did not stop in Antarctica. It was a sightseeing flight to Antarctica. It was supposed to loop between Auckland, New Zealand, and Antarctica. 
The flight's route had been changed without the crew's knowledge shortly before the plane took off. Because the weather conditions of the Antarctic were so bad (severely limiting visibility), and the crew believed they were following the original flight plan-the plane crashed straight into Mount Erebus. None of the 257 people on board the plane survived the crash. The original investigation showed it was the pilot's fault, but people protested and it led to an inquiry into the crash. The conclusion was the accident was caused by a correction made to the route the night before the disaster, and they failed to inform pilot Captain Jim Collins and co-pilot Greg Cassin.

</doc>
<doc id="146911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146911" title="Category:Animals of Antarctica">
Category:Animals of Antarctica


</doc>
<doc id="146912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146912" title="Category:Cities in Mali">
Category:Cities in Mali


</doc>
<doc id="146913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146913" title="Category:Cities in Burkina Faso">
Category:Cities in Burkina Faso


</doc>
<doc id="146914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146914" title="Amborella">
Amborella

Amborella trichopoda is a small, evergreen, deciduous shrub. It occurs only in the moist, shaded understory of montane forests on the South Pacific island of New Caledonia. The genus is the only member of the family Amborellaceae and contains only this single species. 
"Amborella" is of great interest to plant systematists because molecular phylogenetic analyses put it at or near the base of the flowering plant lineage.
Since "Amborella" is apparently basal among the flowering plants, the features of early flowering plants can be inferred. This is done by comparing derived traits shared by other angiosperms but not present in "Amborella". These traits are assumed to have evolved after the divergence of the "Amborella" lineage.
The Amborellaceae are a line of flowering plants that diverged very early on (about 130 million years ago) from all the other living species of flowering plants. Among living flowering plants, it is the sister group to all other flowering plants.

</doc>
<doc id="146916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146916" title="Sandon, British Columbia">
Sandon, British Columbia

Sandon, British Columbia is a mining town in British Columbia, Canada. It is also the place where Cecil 'Tiny' Thompson was born.

</doc>
<doc id="146918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146918" title="UTC+11">
UTC+11

UTC+11 means a time zone that is 11 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time or UTC. UTC is the standard time zone of the world. Time zones are often named by how many hours they are different from UTC time. For example, UTC -5 (United States east coast) is 5 hours behind UTC. 
In Australia, Australian Eastern Standard Time (AEST) is normally UTC+10, but with Daylight saving time it becomes UTC+11.
UTC+11 is the time zone for the following places:

</doc>
<doc id="146921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146921" title="God is dead">
God is dead

"God is dead" (German: ; also known as the death of God) is a well known phrase by German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. 
Friedrich Nietzsche wrote this in his book "The Gay Science". It is also found in Nietzsche's classic work "Thus Spoke Zarathustra" (Deutsch: "Also sprach Zarathustra"), which is most responsible for popularizing the phrase. 
The phrase is not meant literally.
The idea is stated in "The Madman" as follows
"God is dead" does not mean that Nietzsche believed in an actual God who first existed and then died in a literal sense. It refers to the growth of non-believers in supposedly Christian countries.
"When one gives up the Christian faith, one pulls the right to Christian morality out from under one's feet. This morality is by no means self-evident... By breaking one main concept out of Christianity, the faith in God, one breaks the whole: nothing necessary remains in one's hands". This is why in "The Madman", the passage quoted above mainly addresses nontheists (especially atheists). Their problem (according to Nietzsche) is to retain any system of values without a divine order.

</doc>
<doc id="146923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146923" title="Category:Towns in Argyll and Bute">
Category:Towns in Argyll and Bute

Towns in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, UK.

</doc>
<doc id="146924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146924" title="Category:Argyll and Bute">
Category:Argyll and Bute


</doc>
<doc id="146925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146925" title="Category:Falkirk council area">
Category:Falkirk council area


</doc>
<doc id="146926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146926" title="Category:Highland">
Category:Highland


</doc>
<doc id="146927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146927" title="Category:Midlothian">
Category:Midlothian


</doc>
<doc id="146928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146928" title="Category:Surrey">
Category:Surrey


</doc>
<doc id="146929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146929" title="Category:West Lothian">
Category:West Lothian


</doc>
<doc id="146930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146930" title="Category:Communes in Dordogne">
Category:Communes in Dordogne


</doc>
<doc id="146931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146931" title="Jean-François Le Sueur">
Jean-François Le Sueur

Jean-François Le Sueur (or Lesueur) (15 February 1760 — 6 October 1837) was a French composer, best known for his oratorios and operas.
Jean-François Le Sueur was born in a tiny village called Plessiel, near Abbeville. His great-uncle was the painter Eustache Le Sueur. He started his musical training by singing in the choir at the church of Abbeville, then at the cathedral of Amiens. Le Sueur became chorus master at the cathedral of Sées. He went to Paris to study harmony. His teacher was Abbé Nicolas Roze, chorus master at the church Saints-Innocents. Le Sueur got jobs at Dijon (1779), Le Mans (1782), Tours (1783) and then took over Roze’s job at the Saints-Innocents at Paris. In 1786 he was made music director at the famous church Notre-Dame de Paris.
At Notre Dame he started to use orchestras to play the music for some of the special services. The priests did not like this. Le Sueur replied by writing a little book about music for big religious celebrations. It was a bad time in France financially and the church had to make savings, so Le Sueur could not have his orchestra any more, so he resigned from his job.
Le Sueur spent some time in London, 1788-92, then returned to Paris where the revolution was going on. Three of his operas were performed, and he became professor at the École de la Garde Nationale, and then at the Conservatoire which was very new at the time. There he taught basic music theory. He was unable to get any more operas of his performed. He wrote a book saying how music should be taught in France, and criticizing the Conservatoire and its director. Because of that he lost his job at the Conservatoire. 
Le Sueur now had no job and so he was very poor. Then, in 1804, Napoleon made him maître de la chapelle at the Tuileries in the place of Giovanni Paisiello. He was then able to have his most famous work performed at the Opéra. It was called "Ossian ou Les bardes". Napoleon liked it very much and gave Le Sueur the cross of the Légion d'honneur. Le Sueur composed the "Triumphal March" for the coronation of Napoleon. In 1813, he was given a position at the Académie des Beaux-Arts, replacing André Grétry.
At the Bourbon Restoration, he was named composer of the royal chapel and conductor of the orchestra of the Opéra. From the beginning of 1818, he taught composition at the Conservatoire. He stayed there many years. His most famous pupils were Hector Berlioz, Ambroise Thomas and Charles Gounod.
He died in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="146935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146935" title="Anton Reicha">
Anton Reicha

Anton Reicha (born 26 February 1770; died 28 May 1836) was a Czech-born composer who became naturalized French. He was a lifelong friend of Beethoven.
Reicha is now best remembered for the large number of quintets that he wrote for wind instruments, and for his work as a music teacher. Franz Liszt and Hector Berlioz were both pupils of Reicha. Reicha wrote several books about music theory and composition.

</doc>
<doc id="146951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146951" title="British Rail Class 01">
British Rail Class 01

British Rail's Class 01 diesel locomotives were a short wheelbase 0-4-0 diesel-mechanical design intended for use in areas with tight curves and limited clearance.

</doc>
<doc id="146954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146954" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/Articles/3">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/Articles/3

Now we have all had our fill of Christmas pies, turkey and have been visited by Kris Kringle (thanks DYK!), we can all get back into the swing of regular editing on Wikipedia. There will be more features in the next few editions of Simple News. More ways to receive Simple News and more content. The next few editions of Simple News will progress, and will be even more like a newspaper. Watch this space! 
Pretty soon we will be exploring new ways to read Simple News. Two options which have been discussed are via PDF files, and through an email. If you would like to receive Simple News in any other format let us know! 
A lot is happening right now on Simple News. More editors are keen to write articles and help out with Simple News, which is great. But remember, you can help out too! What we need are more people to write columns and articles. We can't do it all ourselves, and we want your help!
I would like to assure you that this project is not doomed to failure like many previous Wikiprojects before. We will strive to get you the best, exclusive news, fortnightly to your talk page for you to enjoy.
Page 2

</doc>
<doc id="146955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146955" title="British Rail Class 02">
British Rail Class 02

The British Rail Class 02 were a class of twenty 0-4-0 diesel-hydraulic shunting locomotives. They were built by the Yorkshire Engine Company in 1960 (first ten, D2850-D2859) and 1961 (D2860-D2869). They were built for use in places of restricted loading gauge and curves such as docks. They had the door to the cab at the rear, with a railed veranda behind the cab. This feature was very unusual on British Rail locomotives. It was used on many Yorkshire Engine Co. designs and was/is quite normal in North American practice.

</doc>
<doc id="146956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146956" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/Articles/3/Page 2">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/Articles/3/Page 2

"Did you know that there is a 100% chance of a White Christmas in Anchorage, Alaska, but only a 1% chance in Phoenix, Arizona?"
No? Neither did I. Interesting snippets of information to get you editing. certainly has taken off. It has been evolving steadily into the process as it is now. It gives us the chance to astound our readers.
Updated with five new "hooks" every two or three days, our editors suggest new chunks of facts that make it onto the main page. All you need to do, is make sure your hook is interesting, relatively short and most importantly that it is sourced. It is also advisable that we don't get our readers to look at stubs, so make sure the article you are "hooking" readers into, is at least 400 characters.
Why not have a look at the project, and get involved?

</doc>
<doc id="146957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146957" title="British Rail Class 03">
British Rail Class 03

The British Rail Class 03 locomotive is, together with Class 04, one of BR's most successful smaller 0-6-0 diesel-mechanical shunters. There are 230 members of the class and it was built by British Railways' Swindon and Doncaster works in 1957-1962. They are numbered D2000-D2199 and D2370-D2399 (later 03004 to 03399). D2370 and D2371 were used as departmental locomotives and originally numbered 91 and 92 respectively.

</doc>
<doc id="146958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146958" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/Articles/3/Page 3">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Kennedy/Articles/3/Page 3

Bureaucrats perform vital tasks. They need to be professional. They need to make hard decisions which could ultimately infuriate many other users. Who would want that job? Well many people actually. We don’t have enough. There are only three (, and ) bureaucrats, one of which is not very active at all. There are only two options I can see to remedy this situation.
So what is to be done? A discussion has to take place on the best course of action. 
My recommendation is to list every active admin (non-bureaucrat) and look at every one and then decide who to promote. Being an admin is no big deal, so why should being a bureaucrat be such a big deal that two highly respected admins are opposed in an RfB on such flimsy grounds?
Lets move with the times and promote the best in our community to Bureaucrat. We need a discussion about the whole RfA/B procedure, to ensure the process is the best it can be.
You can read more about my proposed new RfA procedure at .

</doc>
<doc id="146959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146959" title="Category:British Rail diesel locomotives">
Category:British Rail diesel locomotives

Diesel locomotives built or ordered by British Railways and post-privatisation companies.

</doc>
<doc id="146961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146961" title="British Rail Class 04">
British Rail Class 04

The British Rail Class 04 0-6-0 diesel-mechanical shunting locomotive class was built between 1952 and 1962. It was the basis for the later Class 03 built in the British Railways workshops. The Class 04 locomotives were supplied by the Drewry Car Co., which at the time (and for most of its existence) had no manufacturing capability. Drewry sub-contracted the construction work to two builders. Both of these built other locomotives under the same arrangement. Early locomotives were built by Vulcan Foundry and later examples were built by Robert Stephenson and Hawthorns.

</doc>
<doc id="146964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146964" title="Tajik people">
Tajik people

Tajiks ( "Tājīk") are a Persian-speaking people who are mostly found in what is now Tajikistan, including in parts of Afghanistan and Uzbekistan. After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, some Tajik refugees escaped to live in neighboring Iran and Pakistan. Most Tajiks are Sunni Muslims, but a few in remote mountain areas follow Shia Islam.
The Tajiks are some what similar to Iranians in appearance and culture, they make up almost 80% of Tajikistan's total population. In the early 21st century there were about 6 million Tajiks in Tajikistan and more than 1 million in Uzbekistan. There were about 5 million in Afghanistan. Another 40,000 lived in the Uygur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang in China.
The name "Tajik" being used for this group of people began in the early 20th century by the Russians. Before that, they were called "Sarts". The name "Tajik" refers to the traditionally sedentary people who speak a form of Persian language called "Tajiki" in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, and who speak today's Dari language in Afghanistan.
It is generally accepted that the origin of the word "Tajik" is Middle Persian "Tāzīk" "Arab" (New Persian: "Tazi"), or an Iranian (Sogdian or Parthian) cognate word. Some Turks of Central Asia adopted a variant of this word, "Täžik", to designate the Persian Muslims in the Oxus basin and Khorasan, who were the Turks' rivals. 
Historians believe that some Tajiks may be connected to ancient Aryans who lived in the region for thousands of years. They were the heirs and transmitters of the Central Asian sedentary culture that diffused in prehistoric times from the Iranian plateau into an area extending roughly from the Caspian Sea to the borders of China. The Aryans constituted the core of the ancient population of Khwarezm, Sogdiana and Bactria, which formed part of Transoxania. They were included in the empires of Persia and Alexander the Great, and they mixed with later invaders like the Mauryans, Kushans and Hepthalites. Over the course of time, the language that was used by these ancient people eventually gave way to Farsi, a western dialect spoken in Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. In the 13th century, Genghis Khan and his Mongol army settled in many of the popular Persian cities after whiping out the Persian population. These Mongols later adopted the Persian language and the religion of Islam. Tajiks usually reject Mongol origin and claim to be ancient Persians but this is difficult to prove. 

</doc>
<doc id="146974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146974" title="Heart-Shaped Box">
Heart-Shaped Box

"Heart-Shaped Box" is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana. It was written by lead singer and guitarist Kurt Cobain. It was released on August 23, 1993 as the first single from their third studio album "In Utero".
Cobain's wife Courtney Love thought the song was about her, although it was actually written about children with cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="146977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146977" title="British Rail Class 05">
British Rail Class 05

The British Rail Class 05 is a class of 0-6-0 diesel-mechanical shunters built by Hunslet Engine Company from 1955 to 1961. They were used on the Eastern and Scottish Regions of British Railways. At first they were numbered 11136-11176 and later on were numbered D2550-D2619.

</doc>
<doc id="146978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146978" title="British Rail Class 06">
British Rail Class 06

The British Rail Class 06 is a class of 0-4-0 diesel-mechanical shunters built by Andrew Barclay from 1958 to 1960 for use on the Scottish Region of British Railways. They were originally numbered D2410-D2444 and later given the TOPS numbers 06001-06010. 

</doc>
<doc id="146979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146979" title="Paul Thompson">
Paul Thompson

Paul Ivan Thompson (born November 2, 1906 in Calgary, Alberta - September 13, 1991) was a Canadian ice hockey player. He was a left wing. 
Thompson started playing in the National Hockey League (NHL) in 1926. He played for the New York Rangers and the Chicago Black Hawks. He stopped playing in 1939. 
He was part of the All-Star team two times. He won the Stanley Cup three times. He won in 1928 with New York and in 1934 and 1938 with Chicago.
His brother was Tiny Thompson.

</doc>
<doc id="146982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146982" title="Junior ice hockey">
Junior ice hockey

Junior ice hockey, most often referred to as junior hockey, describes many levels of ice hockey play for players generally between the ages of 16 and 20 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="146983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146983" title="British Rail Class 07">
British Rail Class 07

The British Rail Class 07 diesel locomotive is an off-centre cab dock shunter. They were used in Southampton Docks, to replace SR USA Class steam locomotives. It is a 0-6-0 diesel-electric shunter built by Ruston & Hornsby in 1962. They were originally numbered D2985-D2998 and later given the TOPS numbers 07001(D2985)-07013(D2997), D2998.

</doc>
<doc id="146984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146984" title="Memorial Cup">
Memorial Cup

The 'Memorial Cup is the trophy for the winners of the Canadian Hockey League (CHL). Every year, winning teams from the three CHL leagues, the Western Hockey League (WHL), the Ontario Hockey League (OHL), and the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL), and the hosting team, compete in a tournament. The Spokane Chiefs are the most recent winners.

</doc>
<doc id="146985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146985" title="British Rail Class 08">
British Rail Class 08

The British Rail Class 08 is a class of diesel locomotive designed for shunting. It was the standard BR diesel-electric shunter. It was based on the LMS 12033 series (later TOPS Class 11). Production started in 1953 and when it finished in 1962, the class had become the most numerous of all British classes, numbering 996 in total. There were also 26 of the near-identical but higher geared Class 09, and 171 similar locomotives fitted with different engines and transmissions (some of which became Class 10), which together brought the total number of outwardly-similar machines to 1193.
Since their introduction, rail freight has primarily moved to fixed-rate bulk freight traffic and intermodal freight operations which reduce or remove the need for shunting, therefore only a few class 08 locomotives remain in service today.

</doc>
<doc id="147001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147001" title="Yellow fever">
Yellow fever

Yellow fever is an illness which is caused by a virus. The illness can cause bleeding problems. It is called yellow because the skin sometimes becomes yellow, like it does with jaundice.
There is a vaccine which can stop the disease, but many people in Africa and South America are not vaccinated against it. The World Health Organization say that 200,000 people are made ill with yellow fever every year, and that 30,000 people die from it. 
Yellow peaked in 1842, killing hundreds of people. There was an outbreak in Philadelphia in 1793.
Yellow fever is spread through the bite of an infected mosquito. The name of the mosquito which commonly carries the virus is "Aedes aegypti". The female carries the disease. 

</doc>
<doc id="147002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147002" title="Alexandra Burke">
Alexandra Burke

Alexandra Imelda Cecelia Ewan Burke (born 25 August 1988 in Islington, London, England) is a British soul singer. She is known for winning the 2008 UK series of "The X Factor". She had the 2008 Christmas number one single in the United Kingdom with a cover of Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah".

</doc>
<doc id="147003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147003" title="Opéra-Comique">
Opéra-Comique

The Opéra-Comique is an opera house and opera company in Paris. Its full name is théâtre national de l’Opéra-Comique ("National Opéra Comic Theatre").
The Opéra-Comique company was started in 1714 to give somewhere to perform French operas. At the time operas throughout Europe were nearly always in Italian. Opéra-comique (literally: Comic opera) was a French tradition. The operas in this tradition were performed with spoken dialogue between the musical numbers. This is why the opera house and company were given that name.
The Opéras-Comiques were more popular and less formal that the traditional Italian operas that were performed at the Académie Royale de Musique. During the three centuries of its existence there have been several changes to it. For a time the Opéra-Comique and the Opéra were organized by the same institution.
The Opéra-Comique put on first performances of many famous operas, especially Bizet's "Carmen" on 3 March 1875 and Debussy's only opera, "Pelléas et Mélisande", on 30 April 1902. Berlioz's "The Damnation of Faust" was also first performed there on 6 December 1846. That first performance was a disaster.
The building in which the Opéra-Comique performs is called the "salle Favart,". It is not the same building as in 1714. Two previous buildings were burnt down in 1838 and 1887. The present building was built in 1898.

</doc>
<doc id="147013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147013" title="Walter Scott">
Walter Scott

Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet, FRSE (15 August 1771 – 21 September 1832) was a Scottish historical novelist, playwright, and poet, widely popular in the first half of the 19th century.
Scott was the first English-language author to have a truly international career in his lifetime. As adventures, "Ivanhoe", and "Rob Roy" are very well-known, and both were made into films. "Waverley" is important because it is the first historical novel. It was, for most readers, their first encounter with Highland culture. Scott wove together history and fiction. What he started with "Waverley", he continued with his other novels.
Scott's output was huge. Though many of his works are little read now, they sold well in their day, and paid for his great house, Abbotsford. Of his poetry "The Lady of the Lake" is best liked. 
Scott was also an advocate, judge and legal administrator by profession. Throughout his career he combined his writing and editing work with his daily occupation as Clerk of Session and Sheriff-Depute of Selkirkshire.
A prominent member of the Tory establishment in Edinburgh, Scott was an active member of the Highland Society and served a long term as President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (1820–32).
Scott was educated at Edinburgh High and the University of Edinburgh, graduating in 1783. After spending some time in his father's office he became a barrister in 1792. In 1797 he married Charlotte Charpentier and in 1799 was appointed deputy Sheriff of Selkirkshire. He now began to write books in earnest.
In 1821 he was made a baronet. His house is now a public museum visited by many tourists each year.
In 1825 and 1826, a banking crisis swept through the cities of London and Edinburgh. The Ballantyne printing business, in which he was heavily invested, crashed. Scott was ruined. He placed his house and income in a trust belonging to his creditors, and set out to write his way out of debt. 
He kept up his huge output of fiction, as well as producing a biography of Napoleon Bonaparte. By 1831 his health was failing. Still, he did a grand tour of Europe, where he was welcomed wherever he went. He returned to Scotland and, in September 1832, died at Abbotsford, near Melrose in the Scottish Borders. Though he died owing money, his novels continued to sell well. The debts of his estate were eventually discharged.

</doc>
<doc id="147016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147016" title="British Rail Class 09">
British Rail Class 09

The British Rail Class 09 is a class of 0-6-0 diesel locomotive designed primarily for shunting but also short distance freight trips along branch lines. For this reason, though similar to the existing Class 08 shunting locomotives, Class 09s were re-geared to give a maximum top speed of 27.5 mph (44 km/h) at the expense of a lower tractive effort. They originally operated in the Southern Region of British Railways, though following privatisation in 1997 they have been distributed much farther afield.

</doc>
<doc id="147020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147020" title="British Rail Class 10">
British Rail Class 10

The British Rail Class 10 diesel locomotive was a variation on the Class 08 diesel-electric shunter. A Blackstone diesel engine was fitted instead of one made by the English Electric company. Traction motors were by either the General Electric Company plc (GEC) or British Thomson-Houston (BTH). 
The locomotives were built at the BR Works in Darlington and Doncaster over the period 1953-62. Early batches were classified D3/4 (those with GEC motors) and D3/5 (those with BTH motors).

</doc>
<doc id="147026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147026" title="British Rail Class 11">
British Rail Class 11

The British Rail Class 11 is diesel shunting locomotive built from April 1945 to December 1952. They are based on a similar earlier batch built by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) between 1934 and 1936.

</doc>
<doc id="147027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147027" title="British Rail Class 12">
British Rail Class 12

The British Rail Class 12 is a diesel locomotive built mainly for shunting duties. 
This was the second batch of standard Southern Railway shunters based on the English Electric 6KT 350 hp (260 kW) diesel engine. These locomotives (BR numbers 15201-15203) were built by the SR in 1937 and were later classified D3/12. 
The Class 12 locomotives were built at the BR Ashford Works over the period 1949–1952. They were numbered 15211–15236 and became Class 12. No locomotives survived long enough to acquire Class 12 TOPS numbers though.

</doc>
<doc id="147028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147028" title="British Rail Class 13">
British Rail Class 13

The British Rail Class 13 was formed in 1965. The Tinsley Marshalling Yard needed more powerful shunters to move vehicles around. This was provided by permanently coupling together two Class 08 shunters as a ‘master and slave’ (or ‘cow and calf’) unit. The second of the two units had its cab taken off. Both units were ballasted to improve traction. At first the units were coupled cab-to-cab but it was easier to couple Master nose to Slave cab. The thinking behind adopting this dual locomotive design is that a larger, rigid locomotive could not be used due to the risk of grounding on the hump.

</doc>
<doc id="147029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147029" title="British Rail Class 14">
British Rail Class 14

The British Rail Class 14 is a type of small diesel-hydraulic locomotive built in the mid-1960s. Twenty-six of these 0-6-0 locomotives were ordered in January 1963, to be built at British Railways Swindon Works. The anticipated work for this class was yard shunting, trip work (between local yards) and short distance freight trains. The order was expanded to 56 in mid-1963, before work had started on the first order.

</doc>
<doc id="147030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147030" title="British Rail Class 15">
British Rail Class 15

The British Rail Class 15 diesel locomotives, also known as the BTH Type 1, were designed by British Thomson-Houston, and built by the Yorkshire Engine Company and the Clayton Equipment Company, between 1957 and 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="147031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147031" title="British Rail Class 16">
British Rail Class 16

The North British Type 1 (later known as Class 16) was a type of diesel locomotive ordered under British Railways' . Like other Type 1 designs, they were relatively small locomotives intended primarily for local freight traffic.

</doc>
<doc id="147032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147032" title="British Rail Class 17">
British Rail Class 17

The Clayton Type 1 (later known as Class 17) was a class of diesel locomotive operated by British Railways. 

</doc>
<doc id="147033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147033" title="British Rail Class 20">
British Rail Class 20

The British Rail Class 20, also known as an English Electric Type 1, is a class of diesel electric locomotive. 228 locomotives in the class were built by English Electric between 1957 and 1968. The large number was partly to do with the failure of other early designs in the same power range, and reliable locomotives being needed.
The locomotives were originally numbered D8000–D8199 and D8300–D8327. They are known by railway enthusiasts as "Choppers", a name taken from the distinctive beat the engine produces under load which resembles the sound of a helicopter.

</doc>
<doc id="147037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147037" title="Pawn (chess)">
Pawn (chess)

The pawn (♙♟) is the weakest piece in the game of chess. They represent foot soldiers. Each player starts the game with eight pawns, one on each square of the second row (or rank) from the view of the player. In the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2, ..., h2, while the black pawns start on a7, b7, c7, ..., h7.
Pawns move differently than other pieces. Unlike all the other pieces, pawns can not move backwards. Most of the time, a pawn moves by going up a single square, but the first time each pawn is moved from its starting place, it can go forward two squares. Pawns may not use the first two-square move to jump over a square with another piece on it or to capture. Any piece in front of a pawn, white or black, stops its moving. 
The white pawn at e4 can capture either the black rook at d5 or the black knight at f5, but not the bishop at e5, which blocks its straight way forward. Unlike other pieces, the pawn does not capture in the same way as it moves. A pawn captures diagonally, one square forward and to the left or right. In the diagram to the left, the white pawn can capture either the black rook or the black knight.
An even more unusual move is the "en passant" capture.
En passant happens when a pawn uses its first-move option to move two squares forward instead of one. If it passes over a square guarded by an enemy pawn, that pawn can take the first pawn "in passing" "as if" the first pawn had moved forward only one square. The taking pawn moves into the empty square over which the first pawn moved. The first pawn is removed from the board.
To capture "en passant" can only be done on the move right after the double-square pawn advance. Otherwise the chance is lost.
The "en passant" move was added in late fifteenth century Europe, to make up for the then newly added two-square first move rule. We have no record of why the rule was added, but it is easy to see that it works to prevent the position becoming blocked and uninteresting.
The simplest piece in chess, the pawn was in the oldest version of chess, Chaturanga. It is present in all other types of chess around the world.
The changes which took place in the fifteenth century were aimed at allowing the pieces to develop faster, and make the game more exciting. 

</doc>
<doc id="147038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147038" title="British Rail Class 21">
British Rail Class 21

The North British Type 2 diesel-electric (later known as British Railways’ Class 21) was a type of diesel locomotive built by the North British Locomotive Company in Glasgow for British Railways in 1958-1960.
Starting in 2007, the classification has been reused for new Vossloh G1206 acquired by Euro Cargo Rail/EWS.

</doc>
<doc id="147039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147039" title="British Rail Class 22">
British Rail Class 22

The British Rail Class 22, or "Baby Warship", was a class of diesel-hydraulic locomotives designed for the Western Region and built by North British Locomotive Company. They were very similar in appearance to the Class 21 diesel-electrics.

</doc>
<doc id="147040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147040" title="British Rail Class 23">
British Rail Class 23

The British Rail Class 23 Bo-Bo Diesel-electric locomotives (also called 'Baby Deltics') were a ten strong class of locomotives built by the English Electric Company in 1959. They were numbered from D5900 to D5909. The power unit used was a Napier Deltic T9-29 9 cylinder engine of 1,100 bhp driving an EE generator, which powered the four traction motors. 

</doc>
<doc id="147041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147041" title="British Rail Class 24">
British Rail Class 24

The British Rail Class 24 diesel locomotives, also known as the Sulzer Type 2, were built from 1958 to 1961. One hundred and fifty-one of these locomotives were built at Derby, Crewe and Darlington, the first twenty of them as part of the 1955 British Rail modernisation plan. This class was used as the basis for the development of the Class 25 locomotives.
The final survivor, no. 24081, was withdrawn from Crewe depot in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="147042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147042" title="British Rail Class 25">
British Rail Class 25

The British Rail Class 25 diesel locomotives were also known as Sulzer Type 2 and nicknamed Rats. 327 locomotives of this type were built between 1961 and 1967. 

</doc>
<doc id="147043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147043" title="British Rail Class 26">
British Rail Class 26

The British Rail Class 26 diesel locomotives, also known as the BRCW Type 2, were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage & Wagon Company (BRCW) at Smethwick in 1958-59. Forty seven examples were built, and the last were withdrawn from service in 1993. Like their higher-powered sisters, the BRCW Classes 27 and 33, they did not have fibreglass cab ends.

</doc>
<doc id="147044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147044" title="British Rail Class 27">
British Rail Class 27

British Rail's Class 27 was a diesel locomotive built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company (BRCW) during 1961 and 1962. They were a development of the earlier Class 26; both were originally classified as the BRCW Type 2. There are 69 locomotives in the class.

</doc>
<doc id="147045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147045" title="British Rail Class 28">
British Rail Class 28

The British Rail Class 28 (Metropolitan-Vickers Type 2) diesel locomotives, or 'Metrovicks' as they were popularly known, were built as part of the British Railways Modernisation plan. The locomotives had a Co-Bo wheel arrangement (a 6-wheel bogie at one end, a 4-wheel bogie at the other) – unique in British Railways practice though not uncommon in other countries, notably Japan. This affected their route availability, due to the different axle loading at each end of the loco, and made maintenance more complicated. The maximum tractive effort of 50,000 lbf was unusually high for a Type 2 locomotive but, as there were five (not four) driving axles, the risk of wheelslip was minimal.

</doc>
<doc id="147046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147046" title="British Rail Class 29">
British Rail Class 29

The British Rail Class 29 consisted of 20 diesel locomotives which were rebuilt from the North British Class 21. The original license-built MAN engines of the Class 21s had proved unreliable, so in 1963 locomotive D6123 was sent to Paxman's Colchester works to receive a new Paxman Ventura V12 engine. A further 19 were re-engined in 1964-1965 at Polmadie Works, with other changes made at the same time. This included the fitting of four-character headcode displays in the nose ends. After rebuilding, they returned to service from Eastfield depot in Glasgow.
Although these offered more power and much improved reliability over the original Class 21s, they did not survive much longer, due to their small class size and the use of a non-standard high-speed diesel engine. D6108 was withdrawn in May 1969 and scrapped by McWilliams of Shettleston in 1971, while the other 19 were withdrawn between April and December 1971 and scrapped at BR's Glasgow Works in 1971-72. No Class 21 or Class 29 locomotives survive today. 

</doc>
<doc id="147047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147047" title="Chess piece">
Chess piece

In the board game chess, each player starts with 16 Chess pieces. The moves of the pieces are defined by tradition, and by the international chess federation, FIDE. 
The bottom-right square of the board for each player must be white. Remember, "White is right". 
Pawn - A pawn can only move ahead, to the far end of the board. A pawn is placed in each square on the second row away from each player at the beginning of a game, right in front of all of their other pieces, so each player begins with eight pawns. Most times, a pawn can only move to one square, the square in front of it. But a pawn that has not moved yet in the game can move ahead two squares, or just one. 
If an enemy piece is straight in front of a pawn, the pawn cannot capture that piece. Pawns have a special way to capture. A pawn can capture an enemy piece which is on the diagonal square to the left or right of the square in front of it. This is the only time a pawn can move to a square that is not straight in front of it.
If a pawn reaches the end of the board, it is removed and replaced by any other piece the player chooses, except a king or pawn.
If a pawn moves two squares on its first move, it may be taken (on the opponent's next move only) by an enemy pawn as if it had moved only one. This is called "en passant" (French for "in passing"). A pawn is worth 1 point.
Bishop - A bishop can move any number of squares "diagonally", meaning, if you pretend the bishop is in the middle of a big X, it can move to any square along the lines of the X. Because of this, a bishop will be on the same color of squares for the whole game. At the start, a bishop is placed on the third from the left and third from the right of the row of pieces closest to each player. A bishop is worth 3 points.
Knight - The knight is special because it is the only piece than can jump over other pieces. When a knight moves, first it goes two squares in one of the four ways a rook can move. Then the knight ends its move by going one square to the side. The knight is said to move in the shape of an L. See the picture "(picture is coming)". It "jumps over" the pieces on its way to its new square, and does not capture them, but the knight will capture an enemy piece if it lands on one. Knights are placed at the second and seventh squares on the rows closest to each player, between the rooks and the bishops. A knight is worth 3 points.
Rook - A rook can move any number of squares: left or right on the ranks, and up & down on the files. Rooks start at the far left and far right squares in the row closest to each player, next to the knights. A rook is worth 5 points.
Queen - The queen combines the moves of a bishop and a rook. The queen is placed next to the king "on a square of its own colour". Thus the two queens exactly face each other at the start. The queen is worth 9 points.
King - The king starts next to the queen. The king can move to one of the eight squares around it. It is limited as an active piece, but always is vulnerable to attack. No numerical value can be put on it.
A king may perform a special move known as "castling". This is when a king moves two spaces towards a rook, and the rook moves to the square on the other side of the king. This may not be done if: 

</doc>
<doc id="147050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147050" title="Solanales">
Solanales

The Solanales are an order of flowering plants, included in the asterid group of dicotyledons. Some older sources used the name Polemoniales for this order.

</doc>
<doc id="147051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147051" title="Category:Solanales">
Category:Solanales


</doc>
<doc id="147052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147052" title="Category:Solanaceae">
Category:Solanaceae


</doc>
<doc id="147054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147054" title="British Rail Class 31">
British Rail Class 31

The British Rail Class 31 diesel locomotives, also known as the Brush Type 2 and originally as Class 30, were built by Brush Traction from 1957-62.

</doc>
<doc id="147055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147055" title="British Rail Class 33">
British Rail Class 33

The British Rail Class 33 also known as the BRCW Type 3 or Crompton is a class of Bo-Bo diesel locomotives ordered in 1957 and built for the Southern Region of British Railways between 1959 and 1963.
A total of 98 class 33s were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company, and they were called "Cromptons" after the Crompton Parkinson electrical equipment installed in them.
Like their lower-powered BRCW sisters (BR classes 26 and 27) their bodywork and cab ends were of all steel construction
The original (1957) number sequence was D6500–D6597.

</doc>
<doc id="147056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147056" title="British Rail Class 35">
British Rail Class 35

The British Rail Class 35 is a class of mixed traffic B-B diesel locomotive with hydraulic transmission. On account of their Mekydro-design hydraulic transmission units, the design became known as the Hymeks.
The type was developed for the Western Region of British Railways, which had opted for lightweight locomotives with hydraulic transmission when allocated funds under the British Railways Modernisation Plan of 1955. One hundred and one of the class were built between 1961 and 1964 when it became apparent that there was a requirement for a medium power diesel-hydraulic design for both secondary passenger work and freight duties.
They were allocated to Bristol Bath Road, Cardiff Canton and Old Oak Common. None of the class was named. Withdrawal from service began in 1971, and by 1975 all had been withdrawn. Their early withdrawal was caused, primarily, by BR classifying the hydraulic transmission as non-standard. Four examples survived into preservation.

</doc>
<doc id="147057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147057" title="British Rail Class 37">
British Rail Class 37

The British Rail Class 37 is a diesel-electric locomotive. It is also known as the English Electric Type 3. The Class was ordered as part of the British Rail modernisation plan.
The Class 37 became a familiar sight on many parts of the British Rail network. They were on Inter-City services in East Anglia and within Scotland. They also performed well on secondary and inter-regional services for many years. The Class 37 is known by railway enthusiasts as a "Tractor". This nickname came from the similarity of the sound of the locomotive.

</doc>
<doc id="147058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147058" title="British Rail Class 40">
British Rail Class 40

The British Rail Class 40 is a type of British railway diesel locomotive. Built by English Electric between 1958 and 1962, and eventually numbering 200, they were for a time the pride of the British Rail early diesel fleet. Despite their initial success, by the time the last examples were entering service they were already being replaced on some top-link duties by more powerful locomotives. As they were slowly relegated from express passenger uses, the type found work on secondary passenger and freight services where they worked for many years, the final locomotives being retired from regular service in 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="147059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147059" title="Asterids">
Asterids

In the APG II system, for the classification of flowering plants, asterids are a clade. That means they are a monophyletic group.
The clade includes 17 orders in the traditional Linnaean system. 
Common examples include the forget-me-nots, nightshades, potatoes, eggplants, tomatoes, peppers, tobacco, petunias, morning glory, sweet potato, coffee, lavender, lilac, olive, jasmine, honeysuckle, ash tree, teak, snapdragon, sesame, psyllium, garden sage, and a number of table herbs such as mint, basil, and rosemary.

</doc>
<doc id="147060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147060" title="Eudicots">
Eudicots

Eudicots and Eudicotyledons are a type of flowering plant. They are one of the two major clades. A few examples of eudicots are forget-me-not, cabbage, apple, dandelion, buttercup, maple and macadamia.

</doc>
<doc id="147061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147061" title="Caryophyllales">
Caryophyllales

Caryophyllales is a flowering plant order that includes the cacti, carnations, amaranths, ice plants, and most carnivorous plants. Many members are succulent, having fleshy stems or leaves.

</doc>
<doc id="147062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147062" title="British Rail Class 41">
British Rail Class 41

There have been two distinct types of British Rail locomotive that are referred to as Class 41.

</doc>
<doc id="147063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147063" title="British Rail Class 42">
British Rail Class 42

British Railways' (BR) Type 4 "Warship" class diesel-hydraulic locomotives were introduced in 1958. It was apparent at that time that the largest centre of expertise on diesel-hydraulic locomotives was in Germany. The Western Region of British Railways (in view of post-World War II sensibilities) negotiated a licence with German manufacturers to scale down the German Federal Railway's "V200" design to suit the smaller loading gauge of the British network, and to allow British manufacturers to construct the new design. The resultant design bears a close resemblance both cosmetically and in the engineering employed. They were divided into two batches: examples built at BR's Swindon works were numbered in the series D800 to D832 and from D866 to D870, had a maximum tractive effort of 52,400 pounds force and are the British Rail Class 42 of this article. 33 others, D833-865, were constructed by the North British Locomotive Company and became British Rail Class 43. They were allocated to Bristol Bath Road, Plymouth Laira, Newton Abbot and Old Oak Common.

</doc>
<doc id="147064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147064" title="British Rail Class 43">
British Rail Class 43

There have been two types of British Rail locomotive that have been allocated Class 43.

</doc>
<doc id="147065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147065" title="British Rail Class 44">
British Rail Class 44

The British Rail Class 44 or Sulzer Type 4 diesel locomotives were built by British Railways' Derby Works between 1959 and 1960. They were named after British mountains, and consequently nicknamed Peaks.

</doc>
<doc id="147066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147066" title="British Rail Class 45">
British Rail Class 45

The British Rail Class 45 also known as the Sulzer Type 4 diesel locomotives were built by British Rail at their Derby and Crewe Works between 1960 and 1962. They were the successors to the Class 44 locomotives. When initially put into service the locomotives were fitted with multi-unit working and steam heating boilers for passenger service. In the early 1970s fifty were fitted with electric train supply in place of their steam heating boilers, and assigned to work services on the Midland Main Line from London St Pancras to Nottingham, Derby and Sheffield. All were withdrawn from service by 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="147067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147067" title="British Rail Class 46">
British Rail Class 46

The British Rail Class 46 is a class of diesel locomotive. They were built from 1961-1963 at British Railways' Derby Works and were initially numbered D138-D193. With the arrival of TOPS computer system they were renumbered to Class 46. Fifty-six locomotives were built. The first was withdrawn in 1977 and all of them were withdrawn by 1984.
The Class 46 design was structurally the same as the earlier Class 45 build, and had the same Sulzer engine. It differed in the fitment of a Brush generator and traction motors, in place of the Crompton Parkinson equipment fitted to the Class 45.

</doc>
<doc id="147068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147068" title="British Rail Class 47">
British Rail Class 47

The British Rail Class 47 (Originally Brush Type 4) is a class of British railway diesel-electric locomotive that was developed in the 1960s by Brush Traction. A total of 512 Class 47s were built at Crewe Works and Brush's Falcon Works, Loughborough between 1962 and 1968, which made them the most numerous class of British mainline diesel locomotive.
They were fitted with the Sulzer 12LDA28C twin-bank twelve-cylinder unit producing (later derated to 2580 bhp to improve reliability), and have been used on both passenger and freight trains on Britain's railways for over 40 years. Despite the introduction of more modern types of traction, as of 2008 a significant number are still in use, both on the mainline and on heritage railways. As of December 2008, 103 locomotives are still extant, with 29 working on the mainline.

</doc>
<doc id="147069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147069" title="British Rail Class 48">
British Rail Class 48

The British Rail Class 48 was a diesel locomotive class which consisted of five examples, built at Brush Falcon Works in Loughborough and delivered between September 1965 and July 1966. They were part of the British Rail Class 47 order, but differed from their classmates by being fitted with a Sulzer V12 12LVA24 power unit producing , as opposed to the standard 12LDA28C twin-bank twelve-cylinder unit of the remaining fleet.

</doc>
<doc id="147070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147070" title="British Rail Class 50">
British Rail Class 50

The British Rail (BR) Class 50 is a diesel locomotive built from 1967-68 by English Electric at their Vulcan Foundry Works in Newton-le-Willows. Fifty of these locomotives were built to haul express passenger trains on the, then non-electrified, section of the West Coast Main Line between Crewe, Carlisle and Scotland. They were originally hired from English Electric Leasings, not being purchased outright by BR until around 1973. Under the pre-1968 classification system these locomotives were known as the English Electric Type 4. The class were affectionately nicknamed "Hoovers" by rail enthusiasts because of their distinctive engine sound, caused by the centrifugal air filters originally fitted. These proved unreliable, and were later removed, but the "Hoover" nickname stuck.

</doc>
<doc id="147071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147071" title="British Rail Class 52">
British Rail Class 52

British Rail assigned Class 52 to the class of 74 large Type 4 diesel-hydraulic locomotives built for the Western Region of British Railways between 1961 and 1964. All were given two-word names, with the first word being "Western", and thus the type became known as Westerns.

</doc>
<doc id="147072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147072" title="British Rail Class 53">
British Rail Class 53

British Rail gave the name Class 53 to the single Brush Traction-built example train Falcon. Although it worked, the idea of Class 53 was made old by new locomotive technology (like the power from from single low-speed diesel engines) and was never made twice.

</doc>
<doc id="147073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147073" title="British Rail Class 55">
British Rail Class 55

The British Rail Class 55 is a class of diesel locomotive built between 1961 and 1962 by English Electric. They were designed for the high-speed express passenger services on the East Coast Main Line between London King's Cross and Edinburgh. They gained the name "Deltic" from the prototype locomotive, DP1 "Deltic", which in turn was named for its Napier Deltic power units. 22 locomotives were built, and they dominated services on the line until their withdrawal at the end of 1981. Six locomotives were preserved and are still running today.

</doc>
<doc id="147074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147074" title="British Rail Class 56">
British Rail Class 56

The British Rail Class 56 is a type of diesel locomotive designed for heavy freight work. It is a Type 5 locomotive, with a Ruston-Paxman power unit developing 3,250bhp (2,423kW), and has a Co-Co wheel arrangement. The fleet was introduced between 1976 and 1983. 
The first thirty locomotives (Nos.56001-56030) were built by Electroputere in Romania, but these suffered from poor construction standards, and many were withdrawn from service early. The remaining 105 locomotives were built by BREL at Doncaster Works (Nos.56031 to 56115) and Crewe Works (Nos.56116 to 56135). Enthusiasts nicknamed them "Grids", likely due to the grid-like horn cover on the locomotive's cab ends. The 'Grid' name was given due to the fact that class 56 locomotives were the main motive power used on merry-go-round coal deliveries to national grid power stations.

</doc>
<doc id="147075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147075" title="British Rail Class 57">
British Rail Class 57

The British Rail Class 57 diesel locomotives were made by Brush Traction between 1997 and 2004. They are rebuilds, with new engines, of older Class 47 locomotives, originally introduced in 1964–1965. They are known as "bodysnatchers", or "Zombies" to enthusiasts, because the shell (body) of the class 47 has been stripped, rewired and re-engined.

</doc>
<doc id="147076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147076" title="British Rail Class 58">
British Rail Class 58

The British Rail Class 58 is a class of Co-Co diesel locomotive designed for heavy freight. Introduced in 1982, they followed American practice of modularisation. From new they were painted in grey Railfreight Sector livery, instead of BR blue. EWS withdrew them in 2002 after 20 years in service, though 30 were subsequently hired abroad—four to the Netherlands, eight to Spain, and twenty to France.

</doc>
<doc id="147077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147077" title="British Rail Class 59">
British Rail Class 59

The Class 59 Co-Co diesel locomotives were built and introduced between 1985 and 1995 by General Motors Electro-Motive Diesel (EMD) for private British companies, initially Foster Yeoman. They were designed for hauling heavy freight and designated JT26CW-SS.

</doc>
<doc id="147078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147078" title="British Rail Class 60">
British Rail Class 60

The British Rail Class 60 is a class of Co-Co diesel locomotive designed for heavy freight work. While they remain the most powerful diesel locomotives in the UK fleet they have suffered from poor reliability throughout their service life.

</doc>
<doc id="147082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147082" title="British Rail Class 66">
British Rail Class 66

The Class 66 locomotive is a development of the Class 59 and used both on British and European railway networks—where it is marketed as EMD Series 66. 

</doc>
<doc id="147083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147083" title="British Rail Class 67">
British Rail Class 67

The Class 67 locomotives were a type of train built from 1999 to 2000 by Alstom in Valencia, Spain under sub-contract from General Motors Diesel in Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="147085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147085" title="British Rail Class 70">
British Rail Class 70

The British Rail class 70 was a class of three 3rd rail Co-Co electric locomotives. The initial two were built by the Southern Railway at Ashford Works in 1941 and 1945 and were numbered CC1 and CC2. Electrical equipment was designed by Alfred Raworth and the body by Oliver Bulleid. CC2 was modified slightly from the original design by C. M. Cock who had succeeded Raworth as Electrical Engineer. The third was built by British Railways in 1948 and numbered 20003.

</doc>
<doc id="147086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147086" title="Freightliner Project Genesis">
Freightliner Project Genesis

The Class 70 is a British designation for a type of diesel locomotive made by General Electric, which calls the type PowerHaul. The first were built for Freightliner (UK) by a company called General Electric in a country called the USA.
On 10 January 2011, while being unloaded by a crane from a boat after delivery, locomotive number 70012 was dropped from about 13 feet in the air back into the boat. 

</doc>
<doc id="147088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147088" title="Category:British Rail electric locomotives">
Category:British Rail electric locomotives

Electric locomotives built or ordered by British Rail, its predecessors and the post-privatisation companies.

</doc>
<doc id="147089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147089" title="Category:British Rail locomotives">
Category:British Rail locomotives

Locomotives built or ordered by British Railways and post-privatisation companies. Locomotives are sub-categorised according to type.

</doc>
<doc id="147090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147090" title="Category:British Rail">
Category:British Rail


</doc>
<doc id="147100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147100" title="Balaenoptera omurai">
Balaenoptera omurai

Balaenoptera omurai is a species of whale. Little is known about it. It is called the dwarf fin whale, the little fin whale, or Omura's whale. It gets up to 11. 5 meters (about 38 feet) long. It lives in the Indo-Pacific.
"Balaenoptera omurai" is one of the Bryde's whales, a group of closely related and similar whales.

</doc>
<doc id="147102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147102" title="Rook (chess)">
Rook (chess)

A rook (from Persian رخ "rokh") is a piece in the board game of chess. Its name derives from its name in the old IndoArabic game (see History of chess). Each player starts the game with two rooks. When recording games, it is shortened to R, and when printed a figurine is used.
In chess notation, the white rooks start on the "a1" and "h1" squares, and the black rooks start on the "a8" and "h8" squares. 
The rook moves forward or back on the files through any number of squares without other pieces on them, and sideways on the ranks. This is shown in the diagram below. Like other pieces, it captures by going into the square on which an enemy piece stands. 
The rook and king also take part in a special move called castling.

</doc>
<doc id="147103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147103" title="Category:Chess pieces">
Category:Chess pieces


</doc>
<doc id="147105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147105" title="Angels &amp; Airwaves">
Angels &amp; Airwaves

Angels and Airwaves (AvA) is an American alternative rock band. It was formed by former Blink-182 singer and guitarist, Thomas DeLonge. The memers of the band were Atom Willard, former Offspring drummer; Matt Wachter, former bassist of 30 Seconds to Mars; and David Kennedy, former guitarist of Hazen Street and Boxcar Racer. 
DeLonge created the band angels and airwaves to bring good music to people ears. The band performed amazing live performances and was well liked by Delonge's fans. Most of the songs have long built up intros with guitars, synthesizer, drums and keyboards. Delonge showed over time that his live voice had improved since his time singing for Blink 182. 
Angels and Airwaves released their first album, "We Don't Need To Whisper" in 2005. The second studio album, "I-Empire" was released in October 2007. It was a more lighthearted album with a faster beat. AvA has toured very much. They have said that they will be playing for the second year in a row at Vans Warped tour. They will be playing the entire tour. 
DeLonge has covered a few songs from Blink 182 but he has never played the full song in respect to his former band mates. He has played slowed versions of "Down", "I Miss You", "Not Now", and "Reckless Abandon". He only plays these songs by himself with his guitar. 

</doc>
<doc id="147106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147106" title="Category:Communes in Alpes-Maritimes">
Category:Communes in Alpes-Maritimes


</doc>
<doc id="147107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147107" title="Category:Communes in Ardèche">
Category:Communes in Ardèche


</doc>
<doc id="147109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147109" title="Category:Communes in Romania">
Category:Communes in Romania


</doc>
<doc id="147110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147110" title="Category:Communes in Bihor County">
Category:Communes in Bihor County

These are the communes of Bihor County.

</doc>
<doc id="147111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147111" title="Category:Communes in Braşov County">
Category:Communes in Braşov County

These are the communes in Braşov County.

</doc>
<doc id="147113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147113" title="Category:Communes in Harghita County">
Category:Communes in Harghita County

These are the communes of Harghita County.

</doc>
<doc id="147114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147114" title="Category:Communes in Prahova County">
Category:Communes in Prahova County


</doc>
<doc id="147115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147115" title="Category:Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône">
Category:Communes in Bouches-du-Rhône


</doc>
<doc id="147116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147116" title="Category:Communes in Mayenne">
Category:Communes in Mayenne


</doc>
<doc id="147117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147117" title="Kolathur">
Kolathur

Kolathur () is a town in Salem district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. As of the 2001 India census, Kolathur had a population of 10,319. Males make up 53% of the population and females 47%. A total of 9% of the population is under 6 years of age.

</doc>
<doc id="147118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147118" title="Category:Communes in Vaucluse">
Category:Communes in Vaucluse


</doc>
<doc id="147119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147119" title="Category:Communes">
Category:Communes


</doc>
<doc id="147127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147127" title="Martha Jones (Doctor Who)">
Martha Jones (Doctor Who)

Dr. Martha Jones is a fictional character who is played by Freema Agyeman in the television series "Doctor Who" and its spin-off series, "Torchwood". She is a companion of the Tenth Doctor in "Doctor Who", replacing Rose Tyler in the role of the main companion. She made her first appearance in Series 3's "Smith and Jones", broadcast in the UK on 31 March 2007.
Martha Jones is introduced in the 2007 series of "Doctor Who", first appearing in the episode "Smith and Jones". When the hospital she works at is moved to the Moon, Martha helps save the day alongside an alien time traveller known only as the Doctor (David Tennant). To thank her for her help, the Doctor invites her to join him for one trip in his time machine the TARDIS, but he later accepts her as his full-time "companion", admitting that she was "never just a passenger", and he even gives her the key to the TARDIS. Nevertheless, she becomes frustrated because the Doctor does not realise her feelings for him, When the Doctor falls in love(while believing himself to be a human) in the "Human Nature"/"The Family of Blood" two-parter, a pained Martha claims "You had to go and fall in love with a human... and it wasn't me". In the last episode of the series she spends a year travelling the world in a plan which saves the Doctor and reverses time, undoing the Master's actions.
The character reappears in the 2008 series of the "Doctor Who" spin-off "Torchwood", which focuses on occasional "Doctor Who" companion Jack Harkness. She first appeared in the episode "Reset" as part of a three-episode story, 
Later in the Fourth Series of Doctor Who, Martha returns for a three-episode arc beginning with "The Sontaran Stratagem" and ending with "The Doctor's Daughter", Agyeman appears in the role again for the final two episodes of the series, "The Stolen Earth"/"Journey's End",where she has been promoted to a US division of UNIT.
Aside from television appearances, the character of Martha also appears in "Doctor Who" novels and comic books, some of which it is unknown if they are canon or not.
In books, Martha appears in the "New Series Adventures" series of "Doctor Who" novels, published by BBC Books. The first book published was a "Quick Reads" novel, "Made of Steel" by Terrance Dicks (published before her first television appearance), and the character subsequently appeared in all novels in the series, starting with "Sting of the Zygons" by Stephen Cole and most recently in "The Many Hands" by Dale Smith. Freema Aygeman appears as the character on the cover of every novel. In late 2008 "The Story of Martha", a collection of stories focusing on Martha's adventures between "The Sound of Drums" and "Last of the Time Lords", will be published.
In comic strip apperences,Martha has appeared in the "Doctor Who Magazine" strips from #381 onwards and the "Doctor Who Adventures" comics from #28 onwards. The character also appears in the "Battles in Time" series of comic books periodically. In 2007, American comic book publisher IDW Publishing announced their plans to do a series of Tenth Doctor and Martha comics for a America. When asked about canonicity, IDW executive editor Chris Ryall dodged the issue by saying all the comics are "blessed" by Russell T Davies but it is up to the individual how canonical each story is.
Martha also appears in a Radio 4 "Torchwood" drama, "Lost Souls" which aired in Summer 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="147128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147128" title="Louis Antoine Jullien">
Louis Antoine Jullien

Louis Antoine Jullien (born Sisteron, France, 23 April, 1812; died Paris, 14 March 1860) was a French conductor who was famous for his showmanship.
Jullien was born in Sisteron, in the French Alps. At his baptism he had 36 godfathers and was given 36 Christian names. He studied at the Paris Conservatoire. He was a good musician, but mostly he enjoyed popular dance music. He conducted a band, but had to leave Paris because he owed people a lot of money.
He went to London where he formed a good orchestra. His orchestra played at a series of summer concerts (called "Concerts d’été"). Later he conducted a series of winter concerts ("Concerts d’hiver"). Although he was a good conductor he was a great showman. He would make a big show of putting on his white gloves which were given to him on a silver plate. He used a special baton (conductor’s stick) which had jewels in it when he conducted Beethoven. He wore a white waistcoat and enormous wrist bands, and he had a huge moustache and long, black hair. He would throw himself around when conducting and finish by sinking into a velvet chair. The audience loved it, especially when he added military bands to his orchestra. He used to conduct facing the audience. He conducted concerts in the London theatres and parks (promenade concerts). 
Jullien’s programmes included works by the great composers, e.g. Beethoven and Mozart, but they were always mixed with light music: dances, quadrilles, marches, etc. He often added lots of extra instruments to the great classics, e.g. when he conducted Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony he added four ophicleides, a saxophone and side drums. 
Jullien travelled to Scotland, Ireland and America with his orchestra. In 1852 he produced an opera, "Pietro il grande", at Covent Garden, but it cost a ridiculous amount of money and he was financially ruined. 
Eventually he went back to France where he was arrested and put in prison because of his debts. He died in a lunatic asylum. His wife, to whom he had been happily married, lived on for many years, and their son Louis became a conductor and tried to conduct promenade concerts, but he did not have much success.
Jullien’s behaviour might seem strange to us today, but he lived at a time when the role of the conductor was becoming very important as orchestras had become much larger than they had been in the 18th century. He gave people who had never heard good classical music the chance to hear the music by the great composers. He had a very big influence on the musical scene in London and people talked about him for many years after his death.

</doc>
<doc id="147136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147136" title="Category:History of Central America">
Category:History of Central America


</doc>
<doc id="147137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147137" title="Category:Central America">
Category:Central America


</doc>
<doc id="147139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147139" title="Category:Central American countries">
Category:Central American countries


</doc>
<doc id="147141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147141" title="Parachutes (album)">
Parachutes (album)

Parachutes is the first album by Coldplay. The album was released on June 10, 2000. "Parachutes" includes the hit singles "Don't Panic", "Trouble", "Yellow", and "Shiver".

</doc>
<doc id="147142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147142" title="A Rush of Blood to the Head">
A Rush of Blood to the Head

A Rush of Blood to the Head is an album by Coldplay. It was released in August 2002. The album includes the singles "In My Place", "The Scientist", "Clocks", and "God Put a Smile Up On Your Face".

</doc>
<doc id="147143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147143" title="X&amp;Y (album)">
X&amp;Y (album)

X&Y is the third album by Coldplay. The was released as a studio album and was released on June 6, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="147144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147144" title="Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends">
Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends

Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends (or short for simply Viva la Vida) is the fourth hit studio album by rock-pop band Coldplay. Coldplay recorded "Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends" from June 2007 - April 2008. In November Coldplay re-released "Viva la Vida" (album) and added more songs to the album from their EP called "Prospekt's March". The singles "Violet Hill", "Viva la Vida", "Lost!", "Lost+ (ft. Jay-Z)", and "Lovers in Japan" are featured in the album and including the extended edition of "Viva la Vida: Prospekt's March Edition". 

</doc>
<doc id="147146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147146" title="Lost!">
Lost!

Lost is a series of songs/singles recorded especially by Coldplay. The songs are a part of the full extended version of "Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends" called "Prospect's March Edition". 

</doc>
<doc id="147148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147148" title="Category:Polish athletes">
Category:Polish athletes


</doc>
<doc id="147149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147149" title="Category:Polish footballers">
Category:Polish footballers


</doc>
<doc id="147151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147151" title="Wikipedia:Requested moves/Archive">
Wikipedia:Requested moves/Archive

This is an archive of discussions held at . Add newest discussions at the top of the list, with the date and result. 

</doc>
<doc id="147154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147154" title="British Rail Class 71">
British Rail Class 71

The British Rail Class 71 was an electric locomotive used on the Southern Region of British Railways. Unlike most other Southern Region electric locomotives (such as the class 73s & 74s) they could not operate away from the electrified (750 V DC third rail) system.

</doc>
<doc id="147155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147155" title="British Rail Class 73">
British Rail Class 73

The British Rail Class 73 electro-diesel locomotives are very unusual in that they can operate from a 750 V DC third-rail supply but also have a diesel engine to allow them to operate on non-electrified routes. This makes them very versatile, although the diesel engine produces less power than is available from the third-rail supply so they rarely stray from the former Southern Region of British Rail. Following the withdrawal of the more powerful Class 74 electro-diesels in 1977, the Class 73 is now unique on the British rail system.

</doc>
<doc id="147156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147156" title="British Rail Class 74">
British Rail Class 74

British Rail class 74 was an electro-diesel locomotive that operated on the Southern Region of British Railways, rebuilt from redundant Class 71 locomotives in the late 1960s. An electro-diesel locomotive is one that can operate either from an electrical supply, such as overhead catenary or an energized third rail, or from an onboard diesel engine.

</doc>
<doc id="147157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147157" title="British Rail Class 76">
British Rail Class 76

The British Rail Class 76, also known as Class EM1, is a class of 1.5kV DC, Bo-Bo electric locomotive designed for use on the now-closed Woodhead Line in Northern England.

</doc>
<doc id="147158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147158" title="British Rail Class 80">
British Rail Class 80

Class 80 was the TOPS classification allocated by British Rail to the prototype 25 kV AC electric locomotive. This locomotive was built by Metropolitan-Vickers, initially as a prototype Gas turbine-electric locomotive, numbered 18100. British Rail allocated the number E1000 (and later E2001) to the locomotive following its conversion from gas turbine propulsion. 

</doc>
<doc id="147159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147159" title="British Rail Class 77">
British Rail Class 77

The British Rail Class 77, also known as Class EM2, is a class of 1.5 kV DC, Co-Co electric locomotive. They were built by Metropolitan Vickers in 1953–1954 for use over the Woodhead Line between Manchester and Sheffield.

</doc>
<doc id="147160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147160" title="British Rail Class 81">
British Rail Class 81

The British Rail Class 81 is an AC electric locomotive that formerly operated on the West Coast Main Line of the London Midland Region of British Rail.

</doc>
<doc id="147161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147161" title="British Rail Class 84">
British Rail Class 84

The British Rail Class 84 was a 25 kV AC electric locomotive that operated on the West Coast Main Line of the London Midland Region.

</doc>
<doc id="147162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147162" title="British Rail Class 86">
British Rail Class 86

The British Rail Class 86 was the standard electric locomotive built during the 1960s, developed as a result of testing with the earlier Classes 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85. One hundred of these locomotives were built from 1965-1966 by either English Electric at Vulcan Foundry, Newton-le-Willows, or British Rail (BR) at their Doncaster works. The class was built to haul trains on the then newly electrified West Coast Main Line, from London Euston, to Birmingham, Crewe, Manchester Piccadilly, Liverpool and later Preston and Glasgow. They helped to replace steam locomotives, which were finally withdrawn by BR in 1968.

</doc>
<doc id="147163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147163" title="British Rail Class 87">
British Rail Class 87

The British Rail Class 87 is a type of electric locomotive built from 1973-75 by British Rail Engineering Limited (BREL). 36 of these locomotives were built to work passenger services over the West Coast Main Line (WCML). They were the flagships of British Rail's electric locomotive fleet until the late 1980s, when the Class 90s started to come onstream. The privatisation of British Rail saw all but one of the fleet transferred to Virgin Trains; they continued their duties until the advent of the new Pendolino trains, when they were transferred to other operators or withdrawn. The last Class 87 in UK mainline use was withdrawn from service on 31 December 2007. Most have now been sold for reuse in Bulgaria.

</doc>
<doc id="147164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147164" title="British Rail Class 82">
British Rail Class 82

The British Rail Class 82 electric locomotives were built by Beyer, Peacock and Company between 1960 and 1962 as part of the West Coast Main Line electrification.

</doc>
<doc id="147165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147165" title="British Rail Class 83">
British Rail Class 83

The British Rail Class 83 electric locomotives were built by English Electric at Vulcan Foundry, Newton-le-Willows as part of the West Coast Main Line electrification.

</doc>
<doc id="147166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147166" title="British Rail Class 85">
British Rail Class 85

The British Rail Class 85 is an electric locomotive built during the early 1960s, as part of BR's policy to develop a standard electric locomotive. Five prototype classes (81-85) were built and evaluated, which eventually led to the development of the Class 86 locomotive. The locomotives of Class 85 were Originally fitted with germanium rectifiers which were eventually replaced by silicon rectifiers. Forty of these locomotives were built from 1961-64 by BR at Doncaster Works. The class were used to haul trains on the then newly electrified West Coast Main Line, from Birmingham, to Crewe, Manchester Piccadilly, Liverpool and later Preston. By 1965, electrification had spread south to London Euston.
Under the earlier BR classification, the type was given the designation AL5 (meaning the 5th design of 25 kV AC Locomotive), and locomotives were numbered E3056-E3095. In 1968, this was changed to Class 85, when BR introduced a new computer numbering system. From 1971 onwards, locomotives were progressively renumbered into the 85001-040 series. Fifteen locomotives were converted for freight only use, numbered in the 85/1 series. These locomotives were restricted to 80 mph. 

</doc>
<doc id="147168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147168" title="British Rail Class 89">
British Rail Class 89

The Class 89 is a prototype design for an electric locomotive. Only one unit was built, no. 89001, which was officially named "Avocet" by the then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on January 16 1989 at Sandy, Bedfordshire - the home of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (whose logo is an avocet). It was built in 1986, by BREL at their Crewe Works, and was used on test-trains on both the West Coast Main Line and East Coast Main Line. It was fitted with advanced power control systems and develops over 6,000 bhp (4,500 kW). It was given the nickname "Aardvark" although the railfans used to call it "The Badger" owing to its sloping front ends.

</doc>
<doc id="147169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147169" title="British Rail Class 90">
British Rail Class 90

The British Rail Class 90 electric locomotives were built by BREL at Crewe from 1987-1990. Each locomotive weighs 84.5 tonnes and has a top speed of . They operate from 25 kV AC overhead wires and produce . The class is employed on both express passenger services and heavy freight trains.

</doc>
<doc id="147170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147170" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/31-12-08">
Wikipedia:Simple News/31-12-08


</doc>
<doc id="147171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147171" title="Japan Cup">
Japan Cup

The Japan Cup is the most important horse race in Japan. It is held at the end of November in the Tokyo Racecourse. The race is 2400 metres long and the winner gets about ¥533 million (about US $4.6 million) as an award (the highest reward for horse racing in the world).
 The 2002 race took place at Nakayama Racecourse over a distance of 2,200 metres.

</doc>
<doc id="147172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147172" title="List of British Rail unbuilt locomotive classes">
List of British Rail unbuilt locomotive classes

There have been a number of TOPS class numbers assigned to proposed locomotives that have not been built for one reason or another.

</doc>
<doc id="147173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147173" title="British Rail Class 91">
British Rail Class 91

The British Rail Class 91 is a class of 140 mph, 6,300 hp electric locomotives ordered specifically for the East Coast Main Line modernisation and electrification programme of the late 1980s. Built to replace the previous Class 43 (better known as the InterCity 125), the Class 91s were given the auxiliary name of InterCity 225 to indicate their status as a new version of the 125 and their envisaged top speed of 225 km/h (140 mph). The other end of the InterCity 225 train set is formed of a Driving Van Trailer, built with a similar bodyshell to the Class 91 locomotives.

</doc>
<doc id="147177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147177" title="Enchanted">
Enchanted

Enchanted is a 2007 American fantasy romantic comedy musical movie. It was produced and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures in association with Barry Sonnenfeld and Josephson Entertainment. The story is about Giselle, a typical Disney Princess, who is forced from her traditional animated world into the live-action world of New York City.
The movie was first shown on October 20, 2007, at the London Film Festival. It released on November 21, 2007 in the United States. "Enchanted" was well-received critically. It won the 2007 Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Motion Picture, received two nominations at the 65th Golden Globe Awards and three nominations at the 80th Academy Awards. The movie earned more than $340 million worldwide at the box office.
Julie Andrews was the narrator of the story.
A video game based on the movie was developed by Altron for Nintendo DS. It was released by Disney Interactive on November 7, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="147182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147182" title="British Rail Class 92">
British Rail Class 92

The Class 92 is a dual-voltage British railway locomotive which can run on 25 kV AC from overhead wires or 750 V DC from a third rail. It was designed specifically to operate services through the Channel Tunnel between Britain and France. Eurotunnel indicates the Class 92 locomotive as the reference for other locomotives which railway undertakings might want to get certified for usage in the Channel tunnel.

</doc>
<doc id="147183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147183" title="British Rail Class 93">
British Rail Class 93

Class 93 is the traction classification assigned to the electric locomotives that were to enter service as part of British Rail's "InterCity 250" project on the West Coast Main Line. They would have been derived from the Class 91 locomotives that entered service on the East Coast Main Line in 1989. The locomotive would have been utilised along with a train of up to nine Mark 5 coaches and a DVT, similar to the "InterCity 225" sets. The locomotives would have been capable of up to 155 mph. Tenders to construct the locomotives and rolling stock were issued in March 1991, with an expected in service date of 1995; it was envisaged that up to 30 complete trains would be initially required, with a total cost estimated at £380 million. However, the cancellation of the InterCity 250 project in 1992 meant that the rolling stock orders were never made. Here is a picture of what the cab may have looked like.

</doc>
<doc id="147184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147184" title="East Coast Main Line">
East Coast Main Line

East Coast Main Line is a electrified main line between London and Edinburgh in United Kingdom. The trains on this line are operated by National Express East Coast.

</doc>
<doc id="147188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147188" title="West Coast Main Line">
West Coast Main Line

West Coast Main Line is a main line between London and Glasgow in United Kingdom. Train services are operated by Virgin Trains and CrossCountry.

</doc>
<doc id="147189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147189" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Shapiros10">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Shapiros10

I think that in 2009...
Happy New Year!

</doc>
<doc id="147190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147190" title="Category:Stubs">
Category:Stubs

If you would like to request a stub type, please bring it up first. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="147192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147192" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Yotcmdr">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Yotcmdr

Hi everyone!! These are my plans for 2009:

</doc>
<doc id="147193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147193" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Kennedy">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Kennedy

Hello all, I thought I would not bore you with tales of my Chrismas adventure, instead, I have written a poem, based on "The Night before Christmas" by Clement Clarke Moore.
"All names are simply here to make the poem make sense, nothing personal."
I hope you enjoy it! 20:48, 24 December 2008 (UTC)
Twas the night before Christmas, and all through the wiki,
No-one was editing, not even -ky.
The were updated with care,
In hope that some newbies would see them there.
The editors were all nestled all snug in their beds,
With visions of vandals advertising their meds.
And in his ‘kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter’s nap
When out on the wiki there was such a smash,
Jimbo spilled his wine and the servers did crash.
Away to my watchlist I clicked with speed,
Alas no good, re-write the wiki, we need.
I sat with frustration, writing some text,
Creating a stub before moving to the next.
As I invented some elements for the table,
Some user did add a QD label.
Ignoring good faith to his talk page I swore,
As he laughed at my new, fantasy, ore.
While I begged him for his helping hand,
I wrote about my favourite MySpace band.
My horror subsided as more content appeared,
The dog got a fright as I punched and cheered.
I’m glad its fixed as I look for my pup,
We never knew that Santa has a backup
As he left the servers, the jolly old man,
His next stop was to a kid in Japan
But I heard him exclaim, ‘ere he drove out of sight,
"Happy Christmas to all, and to all a good-night!"

</doc>
<doc id="147195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147195" title="Georg Michaelis">
Georg Michaelis

Georg Michaelis (8 September 1857 – 24 July 24 1936) became the first Chancellor of Germany with a non-noble background.
Michaelis was born at Haynau in Silesia. He studied law in Breslau, Leipzig and Wurzburg. He graduated from Göttingen University in 1884.
He was invited by the Japanese government to teach at the German school of law in Tokyo from 1885 to 1889.
When he returned to Germany, he joined the civil service. The Emperor appointed him Reich Chancellor ("Reichskanzler") from July to November 1917.

</doc>
<doc id="147204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147204" title="1994 Atlantic hurricane season">
1994 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1994 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 1994 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. However, in this season no Tropical Cyclone formed after November 30, the end of the season because the last storm, Hurricane Gorden died on November 21, just nine days before the 30th.
The season was unusual in that it produced no major hurricanes, which are those of Category 3 status or higher on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. The strongest, Hurricane Florence, it's top winds were at a Category 2 storm with winds of 110 mph (175 km/h). Aside from Chris, Florence, and Gordon, none of the storms became hurricanes. A famous hurricane from 1994 would probably be Hurricane Gordon. Hurricane Gordon was a strange long lived November hurricane that killed at least 1,100 people in Haiti.
Alberto formed from a north-moving tropical depression north of the Yucatán Peninsula on July 2. Tropical Storm Alberto continued north, making landfall near Destin, Florida on July 3 as a moderately strong tropical storm. The storm weakened quickly to a tropical depression, which then moved around Georgia and Alabama until it dissipated on July 7. Damage was guessed at $500 million (1994 USD) and 30 deaths were caused by the effects of Tropical Storm Alberto.
Tropical Depression Two formed near South Carolina on the 19th. The depression moved north making landfall in South Carolina and dissipated on July 23rd. No damage or deaths reported.
Beryl formed off the Florida Panhandle on August 15, only twelve hours before it made landfall near Panama City, Florida. Beryl quickly strengthened before landfall and reached its top winds of 60 mph. Beryl caused inland flooding as it moved through Georgia, across the Carolinas, and all the way to Connecticut where it was absorbed by a frontal system. Damage was guessed at $73 million (1994 USD). Though it caused no deaths, a lot of people were injured by the 37 tornadoes Beryl produced as it weakened.
Chris formed midway between the Lesser Antilles and Cape Verde on August 17, and reached hurricane strength the next day. It moved to the northwest and turned north and brushed Bermuda as a weak tropical storm on the 21st. Chris continued north, and dissipated without causing any damage
The wave that would become Tropical Depression Five was tracked beginning on August 17. The wave was upgraded into a depression on August 29 near the Yucatán Peninsula. Tropical Depression Five made landfall in Tampico on the 31st and dissipating the same day over Mexico. No damage was caused by Tropica Depression Five.
Tropical Storm Debby formed on September 10, just east of the lesser antilies. The storm crossed some of the islands, and dissipated south of Puerto Rico on the 11th. Nine people dead because of Tropical Storm Debby. Damage estimates are not available. It cause flooding and mudslides in Saint Lucia.
Ernesto formed southwest of Cape Verde on September 22 it became Tropical Storm Ernesto. It moved north for two days, and by the 24th had weakened to a tropical depression. Two days later Ernesto dissipated without affecting any land.
Tropical Depression Eight formed on September 19 in the southwestern Caribbean Sea. The wave strengthened into Tropical Depression Eight on September 24 near Honduras. Tropical Depression Eight made landfall in Mexico and dissipated the next day over Guatemala. Some reports show that the remnants of Eight became Tropical Depression Ten.
Tropical Depression Nine form off the coast of Africa on September 26. It was upgraded to the ninth depression of the 1994 season, 150 miles southeast from the Cape Verde Islands the next day. The depression moved north and dissipated on September 29.
An area of disturbed weather, related to Tropical Depression Eight, moved across the northwest Caribbean Sea and the Yucatán Peninsula. A tropical wave moved into the area, causing an increase in showers and cloudiness. The wave became Tropical Depression Ten on September 29 about 150 miles off the coast of Cuba. The system became better-organized and when the depression moved into the Gulf of Mexico, it was absorbed by a non-tropical system on 30th. Tropical Depression Ten caused $5 million in damage (1994 USD).
Florence, at first formed as a subtropical depression in the central Atlantic on November 2. As it northwest, it took on tropical characteristics and was upgraded to Tropical Storm Florence on the 4th. It reached hurricane strength, then turned to the northeast and on November 6, as it was picked up by a strong trough. Two days later Florence was absorbed by the same trough that made it turn northeast. There was no reported damage.
Hurricane Gordon was a very deadly and damaging tropical storm for the Caribbean, Florida and parts of North Carolina. The storm was very slow moving on its path over the Caribbean. This storm killed over 1100 people (estimates range between 500-2300 people dead through Haiti and the central Caribbean islands, including Jamaica and Cuba). The storm's strange motion was making Hurricane Gordon hard to forecast where it would actually go and where it would reach land. Damage was guessed to be at $400 million (1994 US dollars). 
Around Christmas in 1994 a nor'easter may have had tropical characteristics, though it was not called a tropical system. It affected the Mid-Atlantic and New England causing damage at $21 million.
In 1994, only 7 out of 21 names were used. The following names were supposed to be used: 
No names retired as a result all name would be used again in 2000

</doc>
<doc id="147205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147205" title="Category:People stubs">
Category:People stubs

If you would like to request a stub type, please bring it up first. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="147208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147208" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/RyanCross">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/RyanCross

Well, these are my plans for 2009:
That's all. I hope we can accomplish these goals in 2009. :-) 
Thank you for reading "Simple News". 
— @ 22:30, 24 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="147210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147210" title="Category:Geography stubs">
Category:Geography stubs

If you would like to request a stub type, please bring it up first. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="147212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147212" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/FastReverter">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/FastReverter

I think that in 2009...
Happy New Year!
✼ 

</doc>
<doc id="147217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147217" title="British Rail Class 100">
British Rail Class 100

The British Rail Class 100 diesel multiple units were built by Gloucester Railway Carriage & Wagon Company Limited from 1956 to 1958, designed and built in collaboration with the Transport Sales Dept. of T.I. (Group Services) Ltd. 

</doc>
<doc id="147222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147222" title="British Rail Class 101">
British Rail Class 101

The British Rail Class 101 diesel multiple units were built by Metro-Cammell at Washwood Heath in Birmingham from 1956 to 1959, following construction of a series of prototype units. This class proved to be the most successful and longest-lived of all BR's "First Generation" DMUs, with the final five units being withdrawn on 24 December 2003. The oldest set was, by then, just over 47 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="147224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147224" title="British Rail Class 103">
British Rail Class 103

The British Rail Class 103 diesel multiple units were built by Park Royal Vehicles with diesel engines by British United Traction (BUT). Ordered in the first half of 1955, 20 of these sets were built by Park Royal at the Crossley Motors works in Stockport of the ACV Group. They consisted of a power car and a driving trailer. Standard BUT equipment was fitted, with 'A' type engines.
A two-car set with 16 first class and 100 second class seats weighed just under 60 long tons, representing 1,150 lb (520 kg) a seat and had 5 hp per ton of empty weight or 4.35 hp per ton when full.

</doc>
<doc id="147225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147225" title="British Rail Class 104">
British Rail Class 104

The British Rail Class 104 diesel multiple units were built by Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company from 1957 to 1959.
The first units ordered were for the London Midland Region, with the majority of the class for use in North West of England with sets also in Tyneside (being made redundant by the opening of the Tyne & Wear Metro in 1980). In the mid-1980s a few units reallocated to Scotland, with one unit being repainted in a unique maroon and white livery for services to Oban - it became known as the "Mexican Bean". Other vehicles spent time in London and the last vehicles could be found there in the early 1990s.
The class was gradually taken of service from the early 1980s. The final vehicles were withdrawn in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="147227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147227" title="British Rail Class 105">
British Rail Class 105

The British Rail Class 105 diesel multiple units were built by Cravens Ltd. of Sheffield from 1956 to 1959. The class were built with a side profile identical to British Railways Mark 1 carriage stock, using the same doors and windows. None were selected for refurbishment. The last passenger car was withdrawn from service in 1988. 

</doc>
<doc id="147229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147229" title="British Rail Class 107">
British Rail Class 107

The British Rail Class 107 diesel multiple units were built by the Derby Works of British Railways and were introduced in 1960. The class looked similar to the later Class 108 units, but were heavier - having been built out of steel.

</doc>
<doc id="147232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147232" title="British Rail Class 108">
British Rail Class 108

The British Rail Class 108 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby from 1958 to 1961, with a final production quantity of 333 vehicles.
These units stayed in were used till the 1990s after which they were withdrawn from traffic.

</doc>
<doc id="147233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147233" title="British Rail Class 109">
British Rail Class 109

The British Rail Class 109 is a class of 2-car diesel multiple units built in 1957 by Wickham & Co. Five two-car units were built featuring an unusual body design.
The units soon became non-standard and two were sold back to the manufacturer who exported them to Trinidad and Tobago. Another unit was converted into departmental service, and survived in BR ownership until the early 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="147234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147234" title="Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa">
Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa

Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa () is a 2002 Pakistani Urdu movie starring Sana, Moammar Rana and Saleem Sheikh among others. It was directed by Javed Sheikh and ran successfully in theaters across Pakistan. The movie's soundtrack composed by Amjad Bobby was a success prior to its release.

</doc>
<doc id="147235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147235" title="British Rail Class 110">
British Rail Class 110

The Class 110 DMUs were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company in conjunction with the Drewry Car Co. to operate services on the former Lancashire and Yorkshire main line, and spent their entire careers based around this same area. This earned them the name of the 'Calder Valley' sets. They were an updated version of the Class 104, with a revised cab design and raised bodyside window frames.

</doc>
<doc id="147236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147236" title="British Rail Class 111">
British Rail Class 111

The Class 111 DMUs were based on Class 101/2s, but with different engines. The only external body difference was on the final batch of cars where a four character headcode box was fitted above the front cab windows, with the destination indicator on top of a reduced height centre window.
The first cars built, part of an order for 339 Met-Camm cars, were 4 power/trailer sets for the LMR Manchester area built in early 1957. One of these had supercharged 230 hp 6-cylinder engines. This was followed by ten 3-car sets comprising DMBS/TS/DMC for the NER at Bradford, then a further twenty 3-car sets.

</doc>
<doc id="147237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147237" title="British Rail Class 112">
British Rail Class 112

The Class 112 DMUs used the standard Cravens body used for Class 105s but had a single Rolls-Royce engine of 238 hp per car, and they were all formed into 'power twins'- two car sets with both vehicles powered.
There were two batches built, the first 50 vehicles (25 sets) had standard mechanical transmission via a gearbox and were allocated the Class 112. The second batch of 50 cars (25 sets) had hydraulic transmission, and became Class 113s.
The cars were built for services in the LMR Central Division and in the Liverpool - St Helens area, where the gradients in the Lancashire & Yorkshire area required more power. Both types also spent some time working from Cricklewood.
The gross weight of a set with all seats occupied was approximately 70 tons, giving 6.8 hp per ton. Empty, it was 8.1 hp/ton, which compared favourably with 5.7 hp/ton that the Cravens power/trailer had.

</doc>
<doc id="147239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147239" title="British Rail Class 114">
British Rail Class 114

The British Rail Class 114 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby from 1956 to 1957. Forty-nine 2-car units were built, numbered 50001-49 for driving motors (later renumbered 53001-49) and 56001-49 for driving trailers (later renumbered 54001-49). The units were used on services in the West Midlands, Lincolnshire and Humberside.

</doc>
<doc id="147240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147240" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Jonas Rand">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Jonas Rand

This coming year, I hope for the community to achieve a better standard of simple language. The simple language on this site really must be improved. Many of our articles are not simple at all, and I am not very good at simplification. Simplification of text can be quite difficult, as there are many concepts that can not easily be explained in simple language without having the appearance of talking down to the reader, or using a description that does not have the full effect of the concept. This should be something that the community should focus more on, as it is a problem that may lead to the project not meeting its goals, becoming a Mini English Wikipedia, and/or being shut down. Of course, the shutdown would be justified and necessary if the project does not meet its goals.
We should also focus on the expansion of articles, as a very large amount of our articles are stubs. For example, a tenth of the articles here are under 534 bytes. It seems that the creation of articles is considered higher in the priority scale than article expansion. This is a somewhat neglected task, so before we have 100,000 stubs, we should have longer, more informative articles. I hope to have at least 75 good or very good (featured) articles by the end of 2009.
Also, governance should be improved upon. I don't really care about how many bureaucrats we have, but by the end of '09, we as a community should have public logs of IRC. For the time that I have been on IRC, many administrative actions have been discussed. The issue with StaticFalcon (now known as User:FastReverter) was discussed heavily on IRC, with people even launching an attack on Static when he was absent. The logs are now deleted, but can be viewed by administrators at . This type of inappropriate behavior exhibited by users such as SwirlBoy39 (who also launched two "prank" attacks on me, and in my opinion needs to be banned for immaturity and bad conduct) needs to be documented, in addition to coöperation between a group of editors to push their point of view. Simple IRC Channels, despite what many say, are used as a venue for things other than informal socializing. Administrative training, like when some users (I forgot whom) advised Kennedy as to how to do a deletion, is done on IRC, and though not bad in itself, should be documented in cases of misconduct by the trainer, such as conspiring on private chat. It should no longer be private.
Another governance measure should be to ensure that IP addresses should be shown in the histories of BLPs so that editors who repeatedly vandalize or deliberately add untrue information can be identified to their ISPs. Also, we should be much more flexible towards editors who happen to be different from us in a certain way, such as not being able to speak English fully, not being used to Wikipedia, etc. Specific cases of inflexibliity are those of User:Berserkerus and . Administrators should acknowledge their role as servants of the community, and should only act as enforcer of the community's will. 
We should listen to critics of the model more, not ban them.
Finally, I wish people could spell the word "bureaucrat" around here properly. 

</doc>
<doc id="147241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147241" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Shapiros10/werdan7">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Shapiros10/werdan7

When did you start editing Wikipedia?
Do you hold any administrative positions on any WMF wikis?
What brought you to Simple?
It says you are a Freenode staff member. What's the story behind that?
What should people do if they are interested in becoming a Freenode staff member?

</doc>
<doc id="147243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147243" title="Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Straight Edge PXK">
Wikipedia:Requests for adminship/Straight Edge PXK

"Ended: December 25 " (per -- 13:38, 25 December 2008 (UTC))
I am the same Straight Edge PXK as on enwiki.
self nom
"Candidate's acceptance:"
I accept nom of myself.
Comment to Strongly Oppose a new user, even with the cute templates, is one of the most bitey things that can be done. Surely an experienced user could have closed this immediately without the need for nastiness? I had hoped this wasn't going to be as bad as EN, but now I'm just worried. () 13:12, 25 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="147245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147245" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/MathCool10">
Wikipedia:Editor review/MathCool10


</doc>
<doc id="147247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147247" title="1995 Atlantic hurricane season">
1995 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1995 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 1995 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. No storms formed after November 30 in the 1995 season.
The 1995 season was extremely active, largely due to favorable conditions including a La Niña and warm sea surface temperatures. Nineteen named storms formed during the season, making it the third most active on record behind the 2005 and 1933 seasons and tied with 1887 season. There were also eleven storms that reached hurricane strength, again the third most hurricanes in one season after the 1969 and 2005 seasons.
This season broke the record for the most Tropical Cyclones at a time in the Atlantic with five storm at a time from August 22 to September 1 – Humberto, Iris, Jerry, Karen, and Luis, were the names of the storms at the same time. 
On August 4, Tropical Depression Six formed in the Bay of Campeche. Six made landfall in over Mexico and dissipated on August 6, never reaching tropical storm strength. There were no reports of damage or deaths. 
Tropical Storm Gabrielle formed on August 9 and nearly became a hurricane but it made landfall in Mexico, near La Pesca, Tamaulipas, on August 11. Tropical Storm Gabrielle dissipated the next day without ever reaching hurricane status causing no damage or deaths.
Tropical Storm Jerry formed just off the Florida coast near Andros Island on August 23 as Tropical Depression Eleven. Jerry made landfall at as a very weak tropical storm. Jerry made landfall in Jupiter, Florida. Jerry dissipated on the 28th over Georgia. 
Hurricane Luis was one of the most powerful storms of the very active 1995 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Luis was the strongest storm to hit the Leeward Islands since Hurricane Hugo in 1989. Luis was one of the four tropical cyclones active from August 22 to September 1 along with Humberto, Iris, Jerry, and Karen.
Tropical Depression Fourteen started on September 9. Fourteen moved mostly to the northwest, which made it further from land. It never became a tropical storm before it died on September 13.
Opal started on September 27, just to the east of the Yucatan Peninsula. It soon made landfall before becoming a tropical storm. As soon as it enter the Gulf of Mexico it became a tropical storm. It soon became a hurricane and strengthened fast. Hurricane Opal was stopped at a category 4 hurricane. When it made landfall in Florida on October 3, it was a category 2 hurricane. 
Tropical Storm Sebastien formed on August 20 from a tropical wave just east of the Lesser Antilles. Sebastien remained rather weak, moving northwest through light wind shear. Sebastien took a sharp turn and started moving south-southwest. On October 24, Sebastien weakened to a depression and made landfall in Anguilla. By this time, Sebastien had entered a low level flow as well as increasing wind shear. On October 25 Sebastien dissipated over the northern Caribbean Sea. Although its remnants still caused heavy rain over Hispaniola and Puerto Rico.
The 1995 season ended with Hurricane Tanya, the first storm to be get a name beginning with 'T' since hurricane naming began in the Atlantic basin in 1950 it was the only until Tropical Storm Tammy in 2005. 
This list is the names set aside for use in for Atlantic tropical cyclones in 1995. Notice that only Van and Wendy aren't used they are marked in .
In the Spring of 1996 the names Luis, Marilyn, Opal, and Roxanne were retired. Lorenzo, Michelle, Olga, and Rebekah were placed on the list in 2001 instead.

</doc>
<doc id="147248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147248" title="Red giant">
Red giant

A red giant is a giant star that weighs about one-half to ten times as much as our Sun. Red giants get their name because they appear to be colored red and they are very large. Many red giants could fit thousands and thousands of suns like ours inside of them. Aldebaran, Arcturus, Betelgeuse and Mira are red giants. 
Right now, our Sun is a main-sequence star, not a red giant. However, five billion years from now, scientists believe our sun will become a red giant. It will be about 200 times wider than it is now. It will become so big it will swallow up Mercury, Venus and possibly the Earth.
All new stars change hydrogen to helium through nuclear fusion. This makes a lot of energy (e.g. light and heat). In a normal star, like our Sun and all other main-sequence stars, this change happens at the very center of the star. Sooner or later, almost all of the hydrogen at the center has changed to helium. This causes the nuclear reaction to stop. The center will start to get smaller due to the star's gravity. This makes the layer just outside the center get hotter. This layer still has hydrogen. This hydrogen will fuse to make helium.
The outer layers of the star will get much, much bigger. The star will get brighter, sometimes as much as ten thousand times as bright as it was at first. Since the outside of the star will get bigger, the energy will be spread over a much larger area. Because of this, the temperature of the surface will go down and the color will change to red or orange.
Sometime later, red giants will start to fuse helium to make other elements like carbon, nitrogen and oxygen. Some of their outer layers will blow away, leaving interstellar gas and dust circling the star. In time, most red giants will become white dwarfs. Very large red giants become neutron stars or black holes.

</doc>
<doc id="147254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147254" title="Hypergiant">
Hypergiant

A hypergiant (luminosity class 0) is a star with an enormous mass and luminosity, showing signs of a very high rate of mass loss. The exact definition is not yet settled.
Hypergiants are the largest stars in the universe, even larger than supergiants. The largest known hypergiant was NML Cygni, which is about 1,650 times wider than the Sun. It is one of the extreme luminous supergiant stars. The pulsating red supergiant UY Scuti is probably larger still. The hypergiant with the next largest known diameter is VY Canis Majoris, which is between 1300 and 1540 times wider than the Sun, or roughly the same diameter as the orbit of Jupiter.
Hypergiants are very rare and they have a short lifespan. While the Sun has a lifespan of around 10 billion years, hypergiants will only exist for a few million years.
Most hypergiants are red stars, but there are two special groups: luminous blue variables (LBV), and yellow hypergiants. Both of these types are very rare, with only a few examples in the Milky Way galaxy. Their rareness is probably because each type passes through its stage quite rapidly.
As luminosity of stars increases greatly with mass, the luminosity of hypergiants often lies very close to the Eddington limit. This is the luminosity at which the force of the star's gravity equals the radiation pressure outward. 
This means that the radiative flux passing through the photosphere of a hypergiant may be nearly strong enough to lift off the photosphere. Above the Eddington limit, the star would generate so much radiation that parts of its outer layers would be thrown off in massive outbursts. This would effectively restrict the star from shining at higher luminosities for longer periods.
A good candidate for hosting a continuum-driven wind is Eta Carinae, one of the most massive stars ever observed. Its mass is about 130 solar masses and its luminosity four million times that of the Sun. Eta Carinae may occasionally exceed the Eddington limit. The last time might have been outbursts observed in 1840–1860. These reached mass loss rates much higher than stellar winds would normally allow.
Another theory to explain the massive outbursts of Eta Carinae is the idea of a deeply situated hydrodynamic explosion, blasting off parts of the star’s outer layers. The idea is that the star, even at luminosities below the Eddington limit, would have insufficient heat convection in the inner layers, resulting in a density inversion potentially leading to a massive explosion. The theory has, however, not been explored very much, and it is uncertain whether this really can happen.

</doc>
<doc id="147271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147271" title="Shiver (Coldplay song)">
Shiver (Coldplay song)

"Shiver" is a single released by rock band Coldplay. "Shiver" was released off the album "Parachutes" in March 2000. A re-release was released a year later in February 2001. 
The format of the single by Coldplay is a CD. It plays as an Extended Play (or EP).

</doc>
<doc id="147273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147273" title="Yellow (song)">
Yellow (song)

"Yellow" is a song by English alternative rock band Coldplay. The band wrote the song and co-produced it with British record producer Ken Nelson. It was for their first album "Parachutes". The song's lyrics are a reference to band vocalist Chris Martin's unreturned love.
The song was released across the world in June 2000. It was the second single off the album following "Shiver". It was the lead single in the United States. The single reached number four in the UK Singles Chart. This gave the band their first top-five hit in the United Kingdom.
Helped by heavy rotation and usage in promotions, the song made the band very popular. Various recording artists worldwide have since made their own versions of "Yellow". It remains one of the band's most popular songs.
"Yellow" was written in a Rockfield studio in Wales. The studio is called the Quadrangle. It is where Coldplay began working on their first album, "Parachutes". One night after finishing recording "Shiver", the lead single of the album, the band took a break and went out of the studio. Outside, there were few lights on and the stars in the sky were visible and "just amazing", according to the song's co-producer, Ken Nelson. He told the band to look at the stars. The band looked at the stars and felt generally inspired. The song's main melody popped into the head of Chris Martin, the band's vocalist. The melody was a chord pattern. At first, Martin did not take it seriously "as he relayed the tune to the rest of the band in his worst Neil Young impersonation voice". Martin has said, "The song had the word 'stars' and that seemed like a word you should sing in a Neil Young voice." The melody "started off a lot slower" according to Will Champion, the band's drummer, and sounded like a Neil Young song. Not long after, despite not taking the song seriously, Martin's idea worked out when he had developed the tempo of the verse. When Jonny Buckland, the band's guitarist, started playing it and added to it with his own ideas, they had created the riff, "and it sort of got a bit heavier".
While composing the song's lyrics, however, Martin could not find the right words. He was thinking of a specific word to fit the song's main idea and theme. He thought that this missing word was a key word in the lyrics. He looked around the studio and found the telephone directory "Yellow Pages". Martin later titled the song "Yellow" as a reference to the directory. But according to him, "In an alternate universe, this song could be called 'Playboy.'" The lyrics progressed from there with the band collaborating. The band's bassist Guy Berryman came up with the opening line "Look at the stars". That night, having quickly composed the song, the band recorded it.
The band and Nelson produced the track. Nelson was introduced to the band's music through the band's manager. Nelson's manager gave him a copy of an EP and single by Coldplay. Nelson wanted to work them after seeing the band perform live. "Yellow" was first recorded upstairs in the project studio. This was a demo room in Liverpool's Parr Street Studios.
Nelson and the band had some problems when they were making some parts of the song. Champion said that "... it was really difficult to record, because it worked at about five or six different tempos. It was a tough choice of choosing which tempo to play, because sometimes it sounded too rushed, and sometimes it sounded as if it was dragging..." The band tried to get the tempo correct, according to Nelson, "because a beat either side of the tempo we picked didn't have the same groove". To improve the song, they recorded this part live and Buckland overdubbed his guitar. They recorded it two or three times until Nelson and the band were happy at the output. The band recorded backing vocals in the control room of Quadrangle.
Nelson used an analogue tape to record most of the tracks in the album. As recording progressed, "Yellow" was one of a couple of songs that they "couldn't quite get on analogue". They recorded different versions, but they did not satisfy their taste. So Nelson used Pro Tools "to get the feel of [the track] just right". Once all of the takes were recorded into the computer, "we then put it down to the 2-inch, which I found was a great way to do it", according to Nelson.
The song opens with an acoustic guitar part. This is backed by an electric guitar copying the acoustic guitar. It then forwards to the lead guitar line. It then goes back to the acoustic section. Its instrumentation is varied, including the drums, cymbals, and the occasional hi-hat and ascending bass guitar. "Yellow" features Martin's falsetto, and nearly spoken-word whispers. Martin, after the song's mixing, felt that his voice was "too subdued, too quiet".
Martin has explained that "'Yellow' refers to the mood of the band. Brightness and hope and ." The references in some of the song's lyrics, including the swimming and drawing a line, "are all metaphorical slants on the extent of his emotional devotion". The drawing of a line refers to Martin's habit of writing lists and underlining those important things on the list. Martin has commented that the song is about devotion. He refers to his unreturned love (Martin was single at the time he wrote the song). Most people have considered "Yellow" as a happy song, even though the lyrics do not seem to be.
"Yellow" and "Shiver" were first released as EPs in the spring of 2000. "Yellow" was later released as a single in UK on 26 June 2000. The single includes the songs "Help Is Round the Corner" and "No More Keeping My Feet on the Ground". The third song was taken from the band's first EP, "Safety". In the United States, however, the song was released as the lead single off the album. In October 2000, the track was sent to US college and alternative radio outlets. The band released a limited-edition CD of "Trouble", the third single off "Parachutes", which features a remix of "Yellow". It was pressed to 1,000 copies, and was issued only to fans and journalists.
The single received a massive radio airplay, particularly on BBC Radio 1. This was helped by its TV reception through its music video. The reaction was mostly positive. Even BBC Radio 2 played the track repeatedly. This heavy rotation continued for months after its release. "Yellow" eventually became 2000's most played song on the radio. The song is also regularly played at various British clubs, bars and sporting events. People often sing along when it is played. The song is often played during home games at English Championship club Watford. "Yellow" was used as the theme song for ABC fall television ads a month after the album was released in the United States. The song was also used as the theme music for The Cancer Council Australia's "Daffodil Day". This was in recognition of that organisation's official flower's yellow hue.
Critics were positive towards the song. Matt Diehl of "Rolling Stone" magazine has noted "Yellow" is "unrepentantly romantic". He added that "the band creates a hypnotic slo-mo otherworld where spirit rules supreme". "Yellow" won Best Single at the 2001 "NME" Carling Awards. It was nominated at the 2002 Grammy Awards for Best Rock Song and Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal. "Billboard" said that "every time that electric-guitar riff barges in, you're hooked all over again."
Brian Hiatt of "Rolling Stone" magazine has said that the song was a career-making record. Roach has claimed in his book, "Coldplay: Nobody Said It Was Easy", that although "Shiver" earned the band their first UK Top 40 single, it was "Yellow" that has changed "everything", and that it "exemplifies so much of what had made Coldplay so popular". In the US, after it was being used in promos of ABC, the band grew in popularity which continued in 2001. According to Barry Walters in his review of Coldplay's second album, "A Rush of Blood to the Head", for "Spin" magazine, the band is still known in the United States for their "surprise smash 'Yellow'". A "Billboard" magazine review said, "After one single ('Yellow') and its accompanying album ("Parachutes"  ... ), Coldplay have already been anointed heir to the Brit-rock throne." The song has since been regarded as the centerpiece track on the album.
Following the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, "Yellow" was the first video played on MTV once normal programming resumed.

</doc>
<doc id="147274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147274" title="Don't Panic (song)">
Don't Panic (song)

"Don't Panic" is a single by British rock band Coldplay.
The single was recorded in 1996. Coldplay released the single off the hit studio album called "Parachutes" which was released on July 10, 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="147275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147275" title="In My Place">
In My Place

"In My Place" was released August 2002. The single was released off the hit album "A Rush of Blood to the Head"" released by rock band Coldplay in 2002. "In My Place" was well received by critics. The song was praised for its music and the deep meaning of its words. "In My Place" won Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal at the 45th Grammy Awards. The music video was nominated for two MuchMusic Video Awards in 2003 in the categories of Best international video–group and People's Choice: Favorite international group. It begins with one crash of a cymbal. After that, there are two bars of 4/4 drumming, then a sad three-note guitar line, and Chris Martin's singing.

</doc>
<doc id="147277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147277" title="List of video games featuring Mario">
List of video games featuring Mario

Over the years, "Mario" has become a famous video game character. He stars in many video games and even has his own series of video games and its spinoff series, the "Donkey Kong," "Yoshi", and "Wario" series. The following course of video games Mario has appeared in over the years is listed below:

</doc>
<doc id="147281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147281" title="Category:Sherpa">
Category:Sherpa


</doc>
<doc id="147284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147284" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/ChuniTana">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/ChuniTana

" has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Friday, 2 January 2009 at 6:21 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="147286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147286" title="Târgovişte">
Târgovişte

Târgovişte is a city in the Dâmboviţa County of Romania. About 89,000 people lived in Târgovişte as of the year 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="147288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147288" title="Category:Religious people">
Category:Religious people

This category includes members of religious orders and otherss who are ministers of religion

</doc>
<doc id="147289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147289" title="Category:Japanese artists">
Category:Japanese artists


</doc>
<doc id="147290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147290" title="Antonio Machado">
Antonio Machado

Antonio Cipriano José María y Francisco de Santa Ana Machado y Ruiz, known as Antonio Machado (July 26, 1875 – February 22, 1939), was a Spanish poet and one of the leading figures of the Spanish literary movement known as the Generation of '98.

</doc>
<doc id="147291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147291" title="Garcilaso de la Vega">
Garcilaso de la Vega

Garcilaso de la Vega (Toledo, c. 1501– Le Muy, Nice, France, October 14, 1536), was a Spanish soldier and poet. The prototypical "Renaissance man", he was the most influential (though not the first or the only) poet to introduce Italian Renaissance verse forms, poetic techniques and themes to Spain. His exact birth date is unknown, but estimations by scholars put his year of birth between 1498 and 1503.

</doc>
<doc id="147292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147292" title="Category:Tatars">
Category:Tatars


</doc>
<doc id="147293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147293" title="Category:People from Connecticut">
Category:People from Connecticut


</doc>
<doc id="147294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147294" title="Category:People from Kentucky">
Category:People from Kentucky


</doc>
<doc id="147295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147295" title="Category:People from Georgia (U.S. state)">
Category:People from Georgia (U.S. state)


</doc>
<doc id="147296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147296" title="Category:People from Colorado">
Category:People from Colorado


</doc>
<doc id="147297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147297" title="Category:People from Arizona">
Category:People from Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="147298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147298" title="Category:Market towns in England">
Category:Market towns in England


</doc>
<doc id="147301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147301" title="Nepenthes">
Nepenthes

The Nepenthes, often known as "Tropical Pitcher Plants" or "Monkey Cups", are a genus of carnivorous plants in the family of the Nepenthaceae consisting of about 120 species (this number is fast increasing, with one to two new species being described each year). Many hybrids exist, both natural and created by humans. These plants come from South China, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines; westward to Madagascar and the Seychelles ; southward to Australia and New Caledonia ; and northward to India and Sri Lanka . Many are plants from hot humid lowland areas, but the majority are from high in the mountains where nights are cold. Nepenthes are often categorized as being lowland or highland varieties, depending on how high they live above sea level. Lowland varieties usually require high temperature and humidity levels. Highland varieties usually require warm days but cold and humid nights. The name "Nepenthes" was first published in 1737 in Carolus Linnaeus's "Hortus Cliffortianus".
Nepenthes traps contain a fluid of the plant's own production, which may be watery or syrupy and is used to drown prey. The trapping efficiency of this fluid remains high, even when significantly diluted by water, as inevitably happens in wet conditions. Many species of "Nepenthes" produce two different forms of pitchers. Near the base of the plant are the large lower traps, which usually sit on the ground, while the upper pitchers may be smaller, coloured differently, and have different shapes and features than the lower pitchers. 
The lower part of the trap contains glands which take nutrients from captured insects.
One of the earliest pictures of "Nepenthes" appears in Leonard Plukenet's "Almagestum Botanicum" of 1696. The plant, called "Utricaria vegetabilis zeylanensium", is without doubt a "N. distillatoria".

</doc>
<doc id="147302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147302" title="Kurohime (manga)">
Kurohime (manga)

Kurohime has 14 volumes (on 2008) and is ongoing.
Magic in this world is used by Gods and by some kind of humanans, called witches (whether they are men or women). The magic used by th witches can be showed under many forms, for example can be mixed with human technology, for example a gun or a rifle. A common use of magic mixes with human technology for example is when Kurohime, shot with her gun, magic bullets, that can invoke magical beasts as dragon or a demon.
Zero - A boy saved by Kurohime in his childhood. Over ten years, he trained and became a gunslinger. He uses 4 guns and is known for his incredible speed. He does not use his guns for killing and only uses them to help people. Zero doesn't use the magic, often is used by Kurohime for to mix magic with technology. Zero loves truly Kurohime and in a part of series he will sacrifice his life for to save Kurohime.
Kurohime - A magician who fights using magical bullets. Ten years ago, she saves Zero, influencing his decision to become a gunslinger. She is very self-centered, and is said to not be able to genuinely love. As a result, she defied the gods and was cursed to walk the world as a child. She can only revert to her adult form when she falls in love. When a child, she is addressed as Himeko, and her magic powers are greatly hindered. The adult Kurohime bears a strong resemblance to the goddess that cursed her (In fact, they are both the same. Kurohime was split into 2 in her battle against the gods; one of "good" which holds all of her love and care and memories, and the other holding her "bad" side, which has no memories, except the anger and hatred. The latter is the current Kurohime, while the former is the "goddess" who gave her the curse.) She is also extremely beautiful and believes all men are her "dogs". Still, she has feelings for Zero, even if she won't admit it. Her name translates to "Black Princess" (Kuro is black and hime is princess). Her chief weapon is her witch-gun, "Senryu" (which, when translated means Tornado Dragon). Aside from being able to fire witch-bullets, Senryu can fire normal bullets with cannon-like force. In the second arc, Himeko receives the Yamato-Dachi from Yamatohime after defeating Gandhara. The sword fuses with Senryu, allowing it to switch between sword (Yamato Senryuto) and gun (Yamato Senryuho) forms.
Himeko- Kurohime's form as a child, she differs greatly from her adult self, besides the fact that she is adorable and cute while her adult self is sexy and beautiful. Himeko is hyperactive and acts like a real child, often falling asleep for naps, while as her adult form is more controlled and calm. Himeko is unable to use strong magic, for example when she tries to evoke a dragon, it comes just a funny little dragon, really useless. 
Onimaru - A heavyset gunslinger that he felt betrayed by Kurohime/Himeko. When she was bad, Kurohime used him and his troops for to build a tower for to fight Gods, after then Kurohime betrayed Onimaru. He was once her most loyal soldier and his back bears a large tattoo of the Kanji for "Dog" and "Kurohime". In the middle of series Onimaru will be cursed by a demon and will be transformed in a little lizard.
Asura - A beautiful looking woman. The people of that land call her and her kind, demons. She is extremely powerful, possessing incredible magical powers, whose destructive properties rivals a god. She is first introduced as a mysterious character who plays a subtle hand in aiding Kurohime and Zero defeat a witch.
Sword- The leader of the death angel squad (Shinigami Tenshidan) sent after Kurohime and Zero in the fourth volume. She and her comrades (Axe, Lance, Mace, Hammer, and Dagger) are sent to reap a group of vengeful souls from a ghost wagon who were revived courtesy of Kurohime. Sword seems to have a personal sense of revenge against Kurohime.
Darkray- The former God of Death. He fought Kurohime when she first challenged the gods. Using the soul of an infant murdered by an attack on Kurohime as a shield, he defeated her with Sword, slicing her in half. He was also the one who suggested splitting Kurohime into two beings: one comprised of pure hate, the other, of love and compassion. This resulted in the birth of Shirohime (White Princess)the Goddess of Mercy. He later appears in the fourth volume.
Yashahime- The mother goddess and lover of Darkray. She swears to kill Kurohime to avenge the fallen God of Death, and first appears when Kurohime killed Gandhara on Yamato. She is very powerful and she tried to kill Zero's soul.She is actually jealous of the love zero and Kurohime share, and uses Darkray's skull to turn Zero into the god of death, so as to make Kurohime experience hell on earth forever.
Yamatohime- The Phoenix Suzaku, Devil God, and Spirit Queen of Fire. She is Asura's master. She had been imprisoned by the gods in the depths of a volcano, under constant watch by the Demon God Gandhara.

</doc>
<doc id="147311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147311" title="British Rail Class 115">
British Rail Class 115

These 41 high density sets operated the outer-suburban services from Marylebone usually to destinations such as High Wycombe, Aylesbury and Banbury which are on the Chiltern Main Line and Great Central Main Line (now the London to Aylesbury Line). Sometimes, these sets used to operate 8-12 car long expresses to Nottingham Victoria in the final years of the GCML. Coincidentally, the 115 were under Table 115 in the British Rail timetable.
Based on the basic Derby high density design, the sets are similar to Class 127 but were internally superior as the class had larger windows, better furnishings, lighting and wall surfaces. 
Some sets were also built for the CLC line between Liverpool and Manchester. These were later transferred to Marylebone. They also worked from Tyseley in the later years.
The Marylebone sets, which were later transferred to Bletchley but remained on Chiltern Line duties, were declared surplus after the introduction of Class 165s, from 1991 onwards. While at Bletchley depot the class was also used on the Gospel Oak to Barking Line, units being formed as power twins. They were in turn replaced on this line by class 117 power twins. 
The final Class 115 working out of Marylebone was in July 1992. The Tyseley sets survived a bit longer, until February 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="147314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147314" title="Pomaia">
Pomaia

Pomaia is a little village (it: "frazione"), near the city of (it: "comune") Santa Luce, in the Province of Pisa, Tuscany, Italy. The village is a very important point for Buddhism in Italy. In Pomaia, one of biggest Tibetan monasteries, called the "Lama Zong Khapa Institute", can be seen.
Pomaia has an economy based on agriculture and tourism.
On April in Pomaia there is a "Sagra", a local festival about broad beans, followed by a lot of people and many tourists. Many tourists come in Pomaia, for to see the Buddhist manifestations in the Buddhist Monastery of Pomaia. 

</doc>
<doc id="147317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147317" title="Morellino di Scansano">
Morellino di Scansano

Morellino di Scansano DOCG is an Italian red wine made in the hills of the village of Scansano (province of Grosseto), in the Maremma, which includes a part of the coast of southern Tuscany. Morellino is the local name for the Sangiovese grape varietal.
The wine, which gained the DOC status in 1978, and upgraded to DOCG status from the 2007 vintage, is made from of 85% Sangiovese (which is also the base of the tuscan wines: Chianti, Brunello di Montalcino and Vino Nobile di Montepulciano). The remaining 0–15% of any non aromatic black grape varieties included in a list made and periodically updated by the local authorities. 

</doc>
<doc id="147318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147318" title="Vino Nobile di Montepulciano">
Vino Nobile di Montepulciano

Vino Nobile di Montepulciano (in English lit. Noble Wine of Montepulciano) is a red wine with Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita status produced in the vineyards in the town of Montepulciano, Tuscany, Italy. The wine is made for the main part from the Sangiovese grape varietal (minimum 70%), blended with Canaiolo Nero (10%–20%) and small add of other local varieties such as Mammolo. The wine is aged in oak barrels for 2 years; three years if it is a riserva. The wine should not be confused with Montepulciano d'Abruzzo, a red wine made from the Montepulciano grape in the Abruzzo region of east-central Italy.
The industry in the wine-producing town of Montepulciano produces a number of different wines:
Some wineries, in addition to wines, also produce Grappa. By Italian law, the same company cannot be both a certified winery and a certified distillery, therefore, the Grappa is produced in cooperation, but, is usually sold by the winery and bears the winery name on its label.

</doc>
<doc id="147319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147319" title="Brunello di Montalcino">
Brunello di Montalcino

Brunello di Montalcino is a red Italian wine. It is made in the vineyards surrounding the town of Montalcino about southwest of Florence, Tuscany, Italy. Brunello, roughly translated as "nice dark one" in the local dialect, is the unofficial name of the clone of Sangiovese (also known as "Sangiovese Grosso") grown in the Montalcino region. In 1980, the Brunello di Montalcino was awarded the first "Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita" (DOCG) designation and today is one of the Italy's best-known and most expensive wines. 

</doc>
<doc id="147320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147320" title="Borodin Quartet">
Borodin Quartet

The Borodin Quartet is a string quartet that was founded in 1945 in what was then the Soviet Union. The four players have not always been the same people: there have been some changes to the group, but it is one of the world's longest lasting string quartets. In 2005 they celebrated their 60th anniversary. Until he retired in 2007 the cellist Valentin Berlinsky had almost always been the cellist of the quartet.
When they started they were known as the Moscow Philharmonic Quartet. In 1955 the quartet changed its name to Borodin Quartet, named after the composer Alexander Borodin who composed two famous string quartets.
They often got invitations to play in the West, but the Soviet communist government would not allow them to travel out of their country. The quartet had to accept the concerts that their government allowed them to do. They played at the funerals of the dictator Stalin and the composer Sergei Prokofiev which were on the same day (both men died on 5 March 1953. However, they were not paid anything for either event.
The quartet knew the composer Dmitri Shostakovich very well. They performed his quartets, and Shostakovich often listened to them practising and discussed with them the way he wanted them to be played. The quartet often played piano quintets with the pianist Sviatoslav Richter.
When they started in 1945 their cellist was Mstislav Rostropovich. Rudolf Barshai was their viola player. Very soon afterwards Rostropovich found he had too many other engagements, so he got Valentin Berlinsky to be their cellist. The four men who then formed the quartet signed an oath in their own blood that they would be faithful and stay together as a group. They stayed together for 20 years. Then Rostislav Dubinsky, the first violinist, defected to the West and the second violinist, Jaroslav Alexandrov, retired because of bad health. With two new players, the quartet spend two years practising together before they performed again in public.
When Communism collapsed and the Soviet Union broke up, the quartet still continued to be very famous. They travelled abroad a lot, performing in places such as London. 
They have made many recordings including all Shostakovich's string quartets and all Beethoven quartets.

</doc>
<doc id="147321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147321" title="Pienza">
Pienza

Pienza, a town (it: "commune") in the province of Siena, in the Val d'Orcia in Tuscany (central Italy), between the towns of Montepulciano and Montalcino, is the "touchstone of Renaissance urbanism." 
In 1996, UNESCO put the town his list as a World Heritage Site, and in 2004 the all valley, the "Val d'Orcia", was put on the list of UNESCO's World Cultural Landscapes.
Pienza was rebuilt from a village called Corsignano, which was the birthplace (1405) of Aeneas Silvius Piccolomini (Italian: Enea Silvio Piccolomini), a Renaissance humanist born into an exiled Sienese family, who later became Pope Pius II. Once he became Pope, Piccolomini had the entire village rebuilt as an ideal Renaissance town. Intended as a retreat from Rome, it represents the first application of humanist urban planning concepts.The rebuilding was done by Florentine architect Bernardo Gambarelli (known as Bernardo Rossellino).
The piazza is made by four buildings. The principal residence, "Palazzo Piccolomini", is on the west side.
The "Duomo" (Cathedral), which dominates the center of the piazza, has a façade that is one of the earliest designed in the Renaissance manner. Artworks in the Duomo include five altar paintings from the Sienese School. The Baptistry, dedicated as usual to "San Giovanni".
The "Palazzo Borgia", on the third side of the piazza, was built as the palace to house the bishops who would travel to Pienza to attend the Pope. Inside the palace there is the Diocesan Museum, and the Museo della Cattedrale. The collection includes a lot of religious artifacts. Paintings include a 7th-century painting of "Christ on the Cross" ("La Croce"), 14th century works by Pietro Lorenzetti ("Madonna with Child") and Bartolo di Fredi ("Madonna della Misericordia"). There are also important works from the 14th and 15th centuries, including a Madonna attributed to Luca Signorelli.
Across from the church is the town hall. Since Corsigniano was originally a village without a town governance, before the transformations there was no town hall. But when Corsigniano was given the status of an official city, a "Palazzo Comunale" was required. A third floor was added in 1599. The "Palazzo Comunale" was probably also designed by Rossellino.

</doc>
<doc id="147325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147325" title="Interactive whiteboard">
Interactive whiteboard

An interactive whiteboard is a large, interactive screen that connects a computer and a projector. The projector projects the computer's desktop onto the screen of the interactive whiteboard. The user can control the computer by using a special pen, finger or another tool to touch the screen of the interactive whiteboard. Normally, interactive whiteboards are fixed on walls. However, there are some mobile interactive whiteboards. Interactive whiteboards are used in many different places such as in classrooms, in work groups and in training rooms for professional coaching. Interactive whiteboards are the modern version of the traditional whiteboards used in schools.
The interactive whiteboard must be connected to an PC before you can use the whiteboard. Most whiteboards are connected to the computer's Serial port or to a USB port. Some newer systems can use a wireless connection to the computer.
The summary of use the interactive whiteboard includes three words: controlling, translation and presentation.
Teachers: 
For students:
Front-projection:
In this system the projector is placed in front of the whiteboard. Either the projector is fixed on the whiteboard or it hangs on the ceiling.
"Pros"
Compared to the rear projection this system is much cheaper
"Cons"
The teacher or the student must stand in front of the whiteboard and sometimes their body will cast a shadow.
Rear-projection:
In the rear-projection system the projector is placed behind the whiteboard.
"Pros"
The teacher does not cast a shadow and does not look into the projector light while speaking to the students.
"Cons"
This system is very expensive.

</doc>
<doc id="147327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147327" title="Sue (dinosaur)">
Sue (dinosaur)

"Sue" is the nickname given to FMNH PR 2081, the largest, most complete and best preserved "Tyrannosaurus rex" fossil ever found. 
Sue was discovered in the summer of 1990 by Sue Hendrickson, a paleontologist, and was named after her. She contacted the Black Hills Institute, whose staff retrieved and prepared the bones.
First, ownership disputes were settled in court. There was a long dispute between the owners of the land, the Sioux tribe, the United States Department of the Interior, and the Black Hills Institute, whose staff had done the work.
The fossil was then auctioned in October 1997 for US$8.36 million, the highest amount ever paid for a dinosaur fossil.
After preparation, the skeleton became a permanent feature at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois. The money had been raised by public subscription.
Some researchers think the skeleton shows evidence that Sue suffered from the painful condition known as gout.

</doc>
<doc id="147331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147331" title="DOCG">
DOCG


</doc>
<doc id="147345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147345" title="Tuscan food">
Tuscan food

This is a list of food from the area of Tuscany, Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="147346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147346" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Tuscan food">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/Tuscan food

" has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
Comment Incredibly poor form and bitey to nominate an article within a few minutes of an editor creating it () 21:20, 26 December 2008 (UTC)
Keep Being a raw article is not grounds for deletion. 21:29, 26 December 2008 (UTC)
Withdrawn request. 21:34, 26 December 2008 (UTC)
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Friday, 2 January 2009 at 9:14 pm, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>
Request was withdrawn 21:35, 26 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="147347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147347" title="Karpenisi">
Karpenisi

Karpinisi is a mountainous Greek city. It is a small city in Eyritania district. Karpenisi is the capital of Eyritania prefecture. Eyritania prefecture has the most mountains of any other prefecture of Greece. There are mountains everywhere in the Eyritania prefecture. The highest point of Karpenisi is at the top of the Tymphristos Mountain, which is 2,315 meters high. Around 7,300 people live in Karpenisi, says the census taken in 2001. Karpenisi is built at an altitude of 960 meters. It sits on the slopes of the Tymphristos mountain. Lamia is east of Karpenisi. Karpenisi is smaller town than Lamia. Lamia also serves the district of Karpenisi. 
Today, Karpenisi is one of the most important winter resorts in Greece. In winter, many Greeks go there in order to do winter sports. The people visiting go skiing and hiking in the forests of Karpenisi. Karpenisi is surrounded by a fir forest. 

</doc>
<doc id="147348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147348" title="Empoli">
Empoli

Empoli is a town in Tuscany, Italy, about 30 km southwest of Florence. It is 30 m above sea-level, to the south of the Arno. The plain of the town has been usable for agriculture since Roman times. Empoli is on the main railway line from Florence to Pisa and is well joined with the city of Siena. 
Empoli has a long tradition as an agricultural centre. It has given its name to a local kind of artichoke.
Empoli was already settled in the time of the early Roman Empire, and still existed in the 4th century AD. The river near the city was a good route for the trade of agricultural products, together with the local amphorae. 
Since the 8th century Empoli grew as a town around the castle, known as "Emporium" or "Empolis". In 1119 it was controlled by Guidi. In 1182 it went under Florentine rule. In 1260, after the Battle of Montaperti, Empoli was the seat of a famous council in which Farinata degli Uberti opposed the destruction of Florence. Later Empoli became an important fortress.
In the "frazione" of Pontorme is the house of the painter Pontormo.
Empoli's main football team is Empoli F.C., which is currently playing in Serie B.

</doc>
<doc id="147349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147349" title="Igoumenitsa">
Igoumenitsa

Igoumenitsa is a small Greek city. It has a population of about 9,644 people. It is found in the north-western part of Greece in the Ipiros periphery. It is a city built along the coast of the Ionian Sea. It has a big port which links Igoumenitsa with the Italian cities of Bari, Ancona and Brintezi. It is the second important port of Greece along the Ionian Sea, after the port in the city of Patras.

</doc>
<doc id="147351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147351" title="Larderello">
Larderello

Larderello is a "frazione" of the "comune" of Pomarance, in Tuscany in central Italy. Larderello is famous for its geothermal productivity. 
The region was known from ancient times for its volcanic nature and for the very hot springs. The Romans used its sulphur springs for bathing. In 1827, François de Larderel, a Frenchman, invented a way of extracting boric acid from the volcanic mud by using steam to separate the two. The town Larderello has the name in honour of Larderel's work. The region was the site of a pioneering experiment in the production of energy from geothermal sources in 1904. Prince Piero Ginori Conti tested the first geothermal power generator on 4 July 1904, at the Larderello dry steam field in Italy. It was a small generator that lit four light bulbs. Later, in 1911, the world's first geothermal power plant was built there. In 1911, the world's first geothermal power plant was built in the Valle del Diavolo ("Devil's Valley"), named for the boiling water in the area. Larderello now produces 10% of the world's entire supply of geothermal electricity, amounting to 4,800 GWh per year.

</doc>
<doc id="147360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147360" title="Minneapolis Millers">
Minneapolis Millers

The Minneapolis Millers were an ice hockey team that played in the American Hockey Association. A famous player who played for the Millers was Tiny Thompson.

</doc>
<doc id="147361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147361" title="American Hockey Association">
American Hockey Association

There were two different American Hockey Associations:

</doc>
<doc id="147362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147362" title="American Hockey Association (1926–1942)">
American Hockey Association (1926–1942)

The American Hockey Association was a small professional ice hockey league. It was active between 1926 and 1942.
The Harry F. Sinclair Trophy was awarded to the league champions.

</doc>
<doc id="147371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147371" title="Bellevue, Alberta">
Bellevue, Alberta

Bellevue is a small hamlet near the Crowsnest Pass of the Rocky Mountains found in southern Alberta, Canada. About 350 people live in Bellevue. It is currently part of the Municipality of Crowsnest Pass, where about 6,500 people live.

</doc>
<doc id="147372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147372" title="The College of William &amp; Mary">
The College of William &amp; Mary

The College of William & Mary in Virginia (also known as The College of William & Mary, The College, William & Mary, or W&M) is a public university in Williamsburg, Virginia, United States. It was founded in 1693 by a Royal Charter issued by King William III and Queen Mary II. It is the second-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.
William & Mary educated U.S. Presidents Thomas Jefferson, James Monroe, and John Tyler as well as other key figures important to the development of the nation, including U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Marshall, Speaker of the House Henry Clay and 16 signers of the Declaration of Independence. In 2008, the college had 5,850 undergraduate students and 2,042 graduate and professional students in and gave 1,454 bachelors, 440 masters, and 209 professional degrees.
The Sir Christopher Wren Building is both the oldest college building in the United States and a National Historic Landmark. The building, nicknamed just the "Wren Building", got its new name in 1931 to honor the English architect Sir Christopher Wren. The first building, in 1699, was designed by Sir Christopher Wren. Not much is known about how the first building looked. It burned down within a few years of its completion.

</doc>
<doc id="147386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147386" title="Tramway track">
Tramway track

Tramway tracks are used on tramways or light railways. Grooved rails (or girder rails) are normally used to let the trams run on streets. This is called "street-running". Like normal rail tracks, tram tracks consist of two parallel steel rails.
Tram rails can be placed in several surfaces. Standard rails can be put on sleepers like railway tracks, or with grooved rails on concrete sleepers into street surfaces (pavement) for street running. Another environmentally-friendly or ecologically-friendly alternative is to lay tracks into grass turf surfaces. This is known as "grassed track" (or "track in a lawn"). It was first used in Liverpool in 1924.

</doc>
<doc id="147389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147389" title="Light rail">
Light rail

Light rail or light rail transit (LRT) is a form of urban rail public transportation. Generally it can carry less people and has a lower speed than heavy rail/metro systems, but it can carry more people and has a higher speed than street-running tram systems. The term is normally used to refer to rail systems with rapid transit-style features that usually use electric rail cars operating mostly in private rights-of-way separated from other traffic but sometimes, if necessary, mixed with other traffic in city streets. Modern light rail technology is highly flexible in how it can be used, and whether any given system is considered a true rapid transit system or not depends on its implementation.

</doc>
<doc id="147393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147393" title="London County Council Tramways">
London County Council Tramways

The London County Council Tramways was a large network of public street tramways. They were formed in 1899. They were run by the council in the County of London, UK. In 1933 they were taken over by the London Passenger Transport Board.

</doc>
<doc id="147397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147397" title="PCC streetcar">
PCC streetcar

The PCC (Presidents' Conference Committee) streetcar (tram) design was first built in the United States in the 1930s. The design was very successful in America. After World War II it was allowed to be used in other countries in the world. The PCC car has proved to be a long lasting icon of streetcar design, and PCC cars are still in service in various places around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="147402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147402" title="Heritage Lottery Fund">
Heritage Lottery Fund

The Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) is a fund established in the United Kingdom under the National Lottery etc. Act 1993. The Fund opened for applications in 1994. It uses money raised through the National Lottery to transform and sustain the UK’s heritage. From museums, parks and historic places to archaeology, the natural environment and cultural traditions, HLF provides grants to support all aspects of the UK's diverse heritage.
By 2008, HLF had awarded a total of £4 billion to more than 26,000 projects across the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="147407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147407" title="Douglas, Isle of Man">
Douglas, Isle of Man

Douglas () is the capital and largest town of the Isle of Man
In 1869, Douglas became the capital city of Isle of Man.

</doc>
<doc id="147414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147414" title="Gateshead">
Gateshead

Gateshead is a town in Tyne and Wear, England. It lies on the southern bank of the River Tyne, opposite Newcastle upon Tyne. Gateshead town centre and Newcastle city centre are very close to one another, and together they form the urban core of Tyneside. Gateshead is the main settlement in the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead.

</doc>
<doc id="147415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147415" title="Wikipedia:Template namespace">
Wikipedia:Template namespace

If you have standard texts you want to include on several pages, the MediaWiki template feature comes into play.
Templates are standard wiki pages whose content is designed to be transcluded (embedded) inside other pages. Templates follow a convention that the name is prefixed with "codice_1", assigning it to that namespace. Therefore you can .
Templates are wiki pages which can be used in other pages in three ways:
In fact, an ordinary wiki page can also be used as a template, simply by qualifying the namespace it resides in, so:
If no such namespace exists, the full title is assumed to be a template:
You can define parameters in templates either numbered as codice_14 or named codice_14. 
Example: You want a little thank you note you can put on the talk page of other users. It will contain a reason and your signature. You could create to enter your text, as in the example in the table.
When using the template on a page, you fill in the parameter values, separated by a pipe char (|): codice_2. For named parameters use "name=value" pairs separated by a pipe char: codice_2. The advantage of using named parameters in your template is that they are flexible in order. It also makes the template easier to understand if you have many parameters. If you want to change the order of numbered parameters, you have to mention them explicitly: codice_2.
You can also provide default values for parameters, i.e. values that are going to be used if no value is provided for a parameter. For example, codice_14 would result in "all your hard work" if no value was provided for the parameter reason.
You can control template inclusion by the use of <code>
</pre></div>
Then, an editor can simply copy and paste the example to create a similar page.

</doc>
<doc id="147417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147417" title="Ambergate">
Ambergate

Ambergate is a village in Derbyshire, England, where the River Amber joins the River Derwent.

</doc>
<doc id="147418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147418" title="Help:Starting a new page">
Help:Starting a new page

ADYB BENCHEKROUN 
Née le 18/05/1975
Fondateur : Likecompleted'
MediaWiki makes it very easy to link wiki pages using a standard syntax (see ). If you (or anyone else) makes a link to an article that doesn't exist yet, the link will be colored red, like this.
Clicking a red link will take you to the edit page for the new article. Simply type your text, click save and the new page will be made.
Once the page has been made, the link will change from red to blue (purple for pages you've visited) telling you that the article now exists.
Usually this is the best way to make a new page, because it means that right from the start, the page will be linked from at least one other place on the wiki (and typically you will want to mesh it into other related pages later) If you are making a new page without making any link to it, you may need to ask yourself: Does this page really fit in with the topics already covered in the wiki? Also, how are you expecting visitors to find this page? Normally there is no reason to make a page without first making a red link to it.
You can use the wiki's URL for making a new page. The URL to an article of the wiki is usually something like this:
If you replace codice_3 with the name of the page you wish to make, you will be taken to a blank page which tells you that no article of that name exists yet. Clicking the "edit" at the top of the page will take you to the edit page for that article, where you can make the new page by typing your text, and clicking submit.
If you search for a page that doesn't exist (using the search box and 'go' button on the left of the page) then you will be provided with a link to make the new page. (Note that this technique doesn't work if you use the 'search' button).
Don't forget to setup redirects when you make a page. If you think another person may search for the page you've made by using a different name or spelling, please make the proper redirect(s). See 
Normally a new wiki page can be edited by other people (that is one of the main ideas of a wiki!) However, a sysop could 'protect' the page, if wanted, to make sure normal users don't editing it.

</doc>
<doc id="147419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147419" title="Rotherham">
Rotherham

Rotherham is a town in South Yorkshire, England. It lies on the River Don, close to its confluence with the River Rother, between Sheffield and Doncaster. Its football club, Rotherham United F.C., was founded in 1870. 

</doc>
<doc id="147420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147420" title="Grimsby">
Grimsby

Grimsby (or Great Grimsby) is a seaport on the Humber Estuary in Lincolnshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="147423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147423" title="Halle, Saxony-Anhalt">
Halle, Saxony-Anhalt

Halle (also called "Halle an der Saale") is the largest town in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt. It lies in the southern part of the state, on the river Saale. It has about 234,000 inhabitants (2006). It is famous all over the world because Georg Friedrich Handel was born there.

</doc>
<doc id="147424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147424" title="Trams in London">
Trams in London

There have been two separate generations of trams in London, from 1860 to 1952 and from 2000. Between 1952 and 2000 no trams ran in London. 

</doc>
<doc id="147426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147426" title="List of United Kingdom locations: Aa-Ak">
List of United Kingdom locations: Aa-Ak

The following is a list of United Kingdom locations, by letter:

</doc>
<doc id="147431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147431" title="Clay Cross">
Clay Cross

Clay Cross is a former mining town in north east Derbyshire, England. It is six miles south of Chesterfield. It is the former Roman road "Ryknield Street". Near by settlements are "North Wingfield", "Tupton", "Pilsley", "Ashover", and "Tibshelf".

</doc>
<doc id="147435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147435" title="Talyllyn Railway">
Talyllyn Railway

The Talyllyn Railway () is a narrow-gauge preserved railway in Wales. It runs for from Tywyn on the Mid-Wales coast to Nant Gwernol near the village of Abergynolwyn. The line was opened in 1866 to carry slate from the quarries at Bryn Eglwys to Tywyn. It was the first narrow gauge railway in Britain authorised by Act of Parliament to carry passengers using steam haulage. Despite severe under-investment, the line remained open, and in 1951 it became the first railway in the world to be preserved as a heritage railway by volunteers. 
Since preservation, the railway has operated as a tourist attraction. It has increased the amount of rolling stock it has. It has done this by buying and building new locomotives and carriages. In 1976, an extension was opened along the former mineral line from Abergynolwyn to the new station at Nant Gwernol. In 2001, the preservation society celebrated its 50th anniversary. In 2005 a major rebuilding and extension of Tywyn Wharf station took place. This included a much-expanded facility for the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum.
The fictional Skarloey Railway was based on the Talyllyn Railway. This fictional railway formed part of the Railway Series of children's books by The Rev. W. Awdry. The preservation of the line inspired the Ealing Comedy film "The Titfield Thunderbolt".
The origin of the railway's name is uncertain. It could refer to the parish of Talyllyn, which contains its eastern terminus. Or it could come from Tal-y-llyn. Tal-y-llyn is a large glacial ribbon lake at the foot of Cadair Idris further east. The gauge of the track is unusual. It was shared by only three other public railways in the United Kingdom: the nearby Corris Railway (which predated the Talyllyn), and the subsequent Plynlimon and Hafan Tramway and Campbeltown and Machrihanish Light Railway.
Slate quarrying began in the hills above Tywyn in the 1830s. Although many small quarries and test levels were established, only one major quarry was developed in the region. It was at Bryn Eglwys, north east of the town. Underground working began in the early 1840s. By 1847 the quarry was being worked by local landowner John Pughe. The finished slates were sent by packhorse to the wharf at Pennal. They were then transferred to boats for a river trip to Aberdyfi (also known as Aberdovey). Finally they were loaded into seagoing vessels. This was a complex and expensive transportation arrangement which limited the quarry's output. In 1861 the outbreak of the American Civil War cut off supplies of cotton to the mills of the north west of England. As a result a number of prosperous mill owners looked for new business opportunities to diversify their interests. One such owner was William McConnel of Lancashire. In 1859 he purchased a house near Dolgellau, north of Tywyn. In January 1864, McConnel formed the Aberdovey Slate Company. The company leased the land including Bryn Eglwys from the landowner, Lewis Morris of Machynlleth.
McConnel set about improving Bryn Eglwys to increase its output. In 1865 his company earmarked money for the construction of a narrow gauge railway connecting the quarry with the port of Aberdyfi. The standard gauge Aberystwyth and Welsh Coast Railway was expanding rapidly from its base at Machynlleth however. In 1863 this railway had reached Tywyn, so McConnel decided to build his line from the quarry to Tywyn. This was the nearest point where slate could be transferred to the standard gauge railway. This was despite the line's initial isolation from the rest of the system because of difficulties in bridging the estuary of the Afon Dyfi to the south. An Act of Parliament (28 and 29 Vict, cap cccxv) allowing the company to operate passenger trains as a public railway was given Royal Assent on 5 July 186., The company appointed James Swinton Spooner as engineer for the construction. He laid out plans for a relatively straight line climbing steadily from Tywyn to the quarry and work quickly got underway. By September 1866 construction had advanced to the point where the Board of Trade inspector Captain Henry Tyler could make an initial inspection and report.
Tyler's report led to an unusual alteration. It was discovered that the loading gauge of the line was too small. The internal width of the overbridges was only , but the railway's passenger carriages were wide. This left less than clearance on either side, which was less than the minimum required clearance of . To alleviate this problem, McConnel proposed that the doors on one side of each carriage be permanently barred and the track slewed off-centre beneath the bridges. This would allow adequate clearance at least on the side with doors and mean that passengers could get out of the carriages if the train stopped underneath a bridge. Tyler agreed to this arrangement, and to this day all carriages on the Talyllyn have doors on one side only, an unusual feature for a public railway. This feature is however shared with the neighbouring Corris Railway, though for different reasons. Tyler also required that improvements be made to the railway's first two steam locomotives, as locomotive No. 1 suffered from excessive "vertical motion" and No. 2 was said to suffer from "horizontal oscillation". No. 1 was returned to its manufacturer where a set of trailing wheels was added to reduce the rear overhang. The springs on No. 2 were adjusted and the crank pins shortened to reduce its oscillation.
The railway opened with two locomotives, one was a carriage and the other carried goods. They were ran under a "one engine in steam" rule to make sure they did not crash into each other. At the beginning, locomotives were kept in a shed made of wood at Ty Dwr at the Abergynolwyn station. This was when the main engineering department of the Tayllyn was being built at . The engineering department opened up on February 17 1867.
When Talyllyn opened there were two train stations it visited, one at Pendre and the other at Abergynolwyn. In 1867, the station at opened. In 1873, and stations opened. Eventually, a line that ran from the Abergynolwyn station to the actual village of Abergynolwyn was opened. People could take an incline down a hill from the station to the town. From there, people could take a one of the many trams that ran through the village. Supplies like coal, building materials, and other things were sent down the incline from the train station to the village.
The railway used steam locomotives when it opened. The two original locomotives were made by Fletcher, Jennings & Co. of Whitehaven in Cumbria. Both of them are still used today but many of the parts inside and outside have been replaced. Talyllyn has a rare gauge. This is thought to match the gauge at Corris Railway. The locomotives at Talyllyn might be the oldest of their kind for making sure they fit that type of gauge. The locomotives, "Talyllyn" and "Dolgoch" used to carry slate from the quarry at Tywyn. It also carried other things. Trains that carried people, called passenger trains, traveled between Abergynolwyn, Dolgoch and Pendre. Men who worked on the quarries also traveled on trains, despite those trains not being able to be used by the public. Those trains traveled from Abergynolwyn to Alltwyllt and into Nant Gwernol.
The line was very successful when it opened. As of 1880, 300 people worked in the local slate industry. Over of slate was sent by train each year. Over 11,500 people first road the trains in 1867. By 1877, over 23,000 people were using the train.
Starting in the 1880s, the "Grand Tour" was popular with people visiting the area, called tourists. People could take the Talyllyn and Corris trains and go through Tal-y-llyn Lake and Cadair Idris. Then, when they returned, they could use Cambrian Railways trains. The need for slate slowed down for the last twenty years of the 1880s. Many quarries fired people or closed. Even the quarries that dug up more slate due to other quarries closing often closed eventually. This made the need for the trains less, and made the railroad companies make less money.
Eventually, the biggest quarry in the area, Bryn Eglwys closed. Most of the people who had jobs in Abergynolwyn worked at that quarry. Many people were hurt by the closure. A man who lived in Abergynolwyn, named Henry Haydn Jones bought Bryn Eglwys. He also became a MP for the Liberal representing Merioneth. The quarry, which had closed, reopened in January 1911. Haydn Jones had no money to put into the quarry. But, when workers started mining in the quarry they pulled slate from the "Broad Vein" section. That section had slate that was very hard. It was not popular and most people did not want to buy it. They stopped getting slate from the Broad Vein and started getting slate from the "Narrow Vein," which had slate that was softer and that people wanted to buy. It was very expensive to build a new mind in the Narrow Vein. So, to save money, Haydn Jones made very small entrances into the mine, which were considered unsafe by many people. The sales of slate rose during World War I because people started building new buildings after they were destroyed in the war.
After the war ended, and after 1920, people started traveling more to see the sights of Britain. The number of people who wrote on the Talyllyn rose and places that once stored slate were used to seat people, instead. Tourists could even rent slate wagons, which were used to transport slate only, as a fun thing to experience. A Gravity railway was used to move people on the wagons. People were no longer able to ride in the wagons as of the 1930s. Tourists brought more money into the area and helped the railway survive, but, Haydn Jones never made money. 
The rental contract on Bryn Eglwys ended in 1942. But, Haydn Jones could renew it each year. People were still visiting the area as tourists. In October 1942, two return trains ran on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The trip was 45 minutes long one way. They did not let people ride the trains on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. In 1946, the was a collapse in Bryn Eglwys. The quarry was called unsafe and people could not use it. It was closed. Haydn Jones kept running the railway and said he would do so until he died. In 1947, most of the railroads in Britain were bought by the government. Talyllyn remained owned by Haydn Jones. Between 1947 and 1949, people could ride the train two days a week. Haydn Jones died on July 2 1950. The railway kept running until October 6.
In 1949, Tom Rolt, who was a writer, visited the railway. David Curwen, who was a locomotive engineer, visited with him. In the summer of 1950, Rolt wrote a letter to the "Birmingham Post". He told them that it was important to rescue Talyllyn. Many people had interest in this. On October 11 1950, a meeting was held about it in Birmingham at the Imperial Hotel. About 70 people attended. Rolt told them that he thought they should make a committee, or a team, to look into buying the railway. The committee met again on October 23. They met with the people who ran Haydn Jones' finances after he had died.
It was very hard due to the law to make the committee the owners of the railway. Both the committee and Haydn Jones' people thought it was a good idea to have Jones' stop being the owner. They decided to make a new company, called Talyllyn Holdings, the owner. The company was a mix of people from the committee and from Jones' group. The company started running the railway on February 8 1951. They changed the name of the company to a non-profit called the Talyllyn Railway Preservation Society. The Society started to advertise that they wanted to save the railway and asked for people to donate money. They also wanted to find people to volunteer to help run the railway. By May, almost 650 people had donated and became members of the Society. The railway re-opened on Whit Monday, on May 14 1951. Trains ran between Wharf and Rhydyronen. Starting on June 4, trains ran daily until the summer. David Curwen was the Chief Mechanical Engineer.
When the railway re-opened again it needed a lot of work done to it to fix things and update it. They bought two more steam locomotives from Corris Railway in 1951. They were named "Sir Haydn" and "Edward Thomas". In 1951, "Sir Haydn" became the first new locomotive to travel on Talyllyn Railway in over 80 years. It derailed a lot because the Talyllyn Railway was slightly wider than the Corris Railway. Eventually this was fixed by changing the width of the railway and changing parts of the locomotive wheels. The "Edward Thomas" needed a lot of service, but it was too expensive to fix. A man who was on the Preservation Society board of directors, John Alcock, had his company, the Hunslet Engine Company fix it for free.
Another locomotive was donated to the Society by an engineering company in Birmingham called Abelsons Limited. The locomotive was named "Douglas". It was built for the depot railway and was used by the RAF Calshot until 1945. It started being used by the public in 1954. Through the 1950s volunteers and Society staff members helped fix the railway tracks.
On May 22 1957, the BBC produced a live television program at the railway. Wynford Vaughan Thomas and Huw Weldon road the train from Dolgoch to Abergynolwyn. As a result of the television program, more people used the train. Over 57,000 people road the train that summer. The money that those people paid helped the Society improve the railway. In 1958, the original "Talyllyn" locomotive was put back in service.
At the Tywyn Wharf train station a museum was opened. It is called the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum. The first object that was displayed at the museum was the Guinness Brewery locomotive. It was donated to the museum in 1952. The museum opened in 1956.

</doc>
<doc id="147440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147440" title="Hill of Howth Tramway">
Hill of Howth Tramway

The Hill of Howth Tramway, or just Howth Tram, operated from June 1901 to June 1959 and served Howth Head, near Dublin, Ireland. The service was run by the Great Northern Railway (Ireland) (GNR(I)), which viewed it as a way to bring more customers to its railway stations at Sutton and Howth.

</doc>
<doc id="147447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147447" title="Trolley pole">
Trolley pole

A trolley pole is a tapered cylindrical pole of wood or metal, used to transfer electricity from a "live" overhead wire to the control and propulsion equipment of a tram or trolley bus. The use of overhead wire in a system of current collection is reputed to be the 1880 invention of Frank J. Sprague.

</doc>
<doc id="147450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147450" title="Bow collector">
Bow collector

A bow collector is one of the three main devices used on tramcars to transfer electric current from the wires above to the tram below. While once very common in continental Europe, it has now been largely replaced by the pantograph.

</doc>
<doc id="147451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147451" title="Pantograph (rail)">
Pantograph (rail)

A pantograph is a device that collects electric current from overhead lines for electric trains or trams. The term stems from the resemblance to pantograph devices for copying writing and drawings.

</doc>
<doc id="147464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147464" title="Assist (ice hockey)">
Assist (ice hockey)

In ice hockey, an assist is when up to two players of the scoring team shoots, passes or sends the puck towards the scoring teammate, or touched it in any other way which made the goal. This usually means that they "assisted" in the goal. At most, there can only be 2 assists for each goal.

</doc>
<doc id="147468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147468" title="Water Stratford">
Water Stratford

Water Stratford is a village and civil parish in the Aylesbury Vale district in Buckinghamshire, England. 

</doc>
<doc id="147469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147469" title="List of settlements in Cambridgeshire">
List of settlements in Cambridgeshire

The following is a list of cities, towns and villages in the county of Cambridgeshire, England, by letter: 
Abington Pigotts - Aldreth - America - Arrington - Ashley - Abbots Ripton - Abbotsley - Alconbury - Alconbury Weston - Alwalton
Babraham - Balsham - Bar Hill - Barnwell - Barrington - Bartlow - Barton - Barway - Bassingbourn - Benwick - Blackhorse Drove - Bottisham - Bourn - Boxworth - Brinkley - Burrough Green - Burwell - Barham - Bluntisham - Brampton - Brington - Broughton - Buckden - Buckworth - Bury - Bythorn
Caldecote - Caldecote (Huntingdonshire) - Cambourne - Cambridge - Camps End - Cardinals Green - Carlton - Castle Camps - Catworth - Caxton - Chatteris - Cherry Hinton - Chesterton, Cambridge - Chesterton, Huntingdonshire - Chettisham - Cheveley - Childerley - Chippenham - Chittering - Christchurch - Coates - Coldham - Collett's Bridge - Colne - Conington - Coppingford - Comberton - Commercial End - Coton - Cottenham - Coveney - Covington - Croxton - Croydon
Ditton Green - Doddington - Downham - Dry Drayton - Dullingham - Duxford - Denton - Diddington
East Hatley - Eastrea - Eaton Ford - Eaton Socon - Elm - Elsworth - Eltisley - Ely - Euximoor - Earith - Easton - Ellington - Elton - Eynesbury - Eynesbury Hardwicke
Fen Ditton - Fen Drayton - Fitton End - Fordham - Foul Anchor - Four Gotes - Fowlmere - Foxton - Friday Bridge - Fulbourn - Farcet - Fenstanton - Fenton - Folksworth
Gamlingay - Girton - Gorefield - Grantchester - Graveley - Great Abington - Great Chishill - Great Eversden - Great Shelford - Great Wilbraham - Guilden Morden - Guyhirn - Glatton - Godmanchester - Grafham - Great Gidding - Great Gransden - Great Paxton - Great Staughton
Haddenham - Hardwick - Harlton - Harston - Haslingfield - Hatley St George - Hatley - Hauxton - Heydon - Highfields - Hildersham - Hinxton - Histon - Horningsea - Horseheath - Haddon - Hail Weston - Hamerton - Hemingford Abbots - Hemingford Grey - Hilton - Holme - Holywell - Houghton - Huntingdon
Ickleton - Impington - Isleham
Kennett - Keyston - Kimbolton - Kingston - Kings Ripton - Kirtling - Knapwell - Kneesworth
Landbeach - Leverington - Linton - Litlington - Little Abington - Little Chishill - Little Ditton - Little Downham - Little Eversden - Little Gransden - Little Ouse - Little Shelford - Little Thetford - Little Wilbraham - Littleport - Lode - Lolworth - Long Meadow - Longstanton - Longstowe - Leighton Bromswold - Little Gidding - Little Paxton
Madingley - Manea - March - Melbourn - Meldreth - Mepal - Milton - Murrow - Midloe - Molesworth - Morborne
Newton - Needingworth
Oakington - Orwell - Over - Offord Cluny - Offord D'Arcy - Oldhurst - Old Weston
Pampisford - Papworth Everard - Papworth St Agnes - Parson Drove - Peterborough - Pondersbridge - Prickwillow - Pymore - Perry - Pidley
Queen Adelaide
Rampton - Ramsey Mereside - Reach - Ring's End - Ramsey - Ramsey Forty Foot - Ramsey Heights - Ramsey St Mary's - The Raveleys
Sawston - Saxon Street - Shepreth - Shingay - Shudy Camps - Snailwell - Soham - Stapleford - Steeple Morden - Stetchworth - Stonea - Stow-cum-Quy - Streetley End - Stretham - Stuntney - Sutton - Sutton Gault - Sutton-in-the-Isle - Swaffham Bulbeck - Swaffham Prior - Swavesey - St Ives - St Neots - Sawtry - Sibson - Somersham - Southoe - Spaldwick - Steeple Gidding - Stibbington - Stilton - Stonely - Stow Longa - The Stukeleys - Swingbrow
Tadlow - Tetworth - Teversham - Tholomas Drove - Thorney - Thorney Toll - Thriplow - Tilbrook - Tips End - Toft - Toseland - Trumpington - Turves - Tydd Gote - Tydd St Giles
Upend - Upware - Upton - Upwood
Wardy Hill - Waterbeach - Welches Dam - Wendy - Wentworth - West Wickham - West Wratting - Westley Waterless - Weston Colville - Weston Green - Westry - Westwick - Whaddon - Whittlesey - Whittlesford Bridge - Whittlesford - Wicken - Wilburton - Willingham - Wimblington - Wimpole - Wisbech - Wisbech St Mary - Witcham - Witchford - Woodditton - Warboys - Waresley - Washingley - Water Newton - Winwick - Wistow - Woodwalton - Woolley - Woodhurst - Wothorpe - Wyton
Yaxley - Yelling

</doc>
<doc id="147470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147470" title="List of settlements in Northern Ireland by county">
List of settlements in Northern Ireland by county

The following is a list of places in Northern Ireland, by county:

</doc>
<doc id="147471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147471" title="List of towns and villages in Northern Ireland">
List of towns and villages in Northern Ireland

This is an alphabetical list of towns and villages in Northern Ireland. The towns of Armagh, Lisburn and Newry are also classed as cities (see city status in the United Kingdom). 
The Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) uses these definitions:
Towns are listed in bold.
Acton, Aghacommon, Aghadowey, Aghadrumsee, Aghagallon, Aghalee, Ahoghill, Aldergrove, Altamuskin, Altishane, Altmore, Annaclone, Annaghmore, Annahilt, Annahugh, Annalong, Annsborough, Antrim, Ardboe, Ardgarvan, Ardglass, Ardmore, Ardstraw, Armoy, Arney, Articlave, Artigarvan, Artikelly, Atticall, Aughafatten, Augher, Aughnacloy
Ballela, Ballerin, Ballinamallard, Ballintoy, Balloo, Ballybogy, Ballycarry, Ballycassidy, Ballycastle, Ballyclare, Ballyeaston, Ballygalley, Ballygawley, Ballygowan, Ballyhalbert, Ballyhornan, Ballykelly, Ballykilner, Ballylesson, Ballylinney, Ballymacmaine, Ballymacnab, Ballymagorry, Ballymartin, Ballymaguigan, Ballymena, Ballymoney, Ballynahinch, Ballynure, Ballyrashane, Ballyrobert, Ballyronan, Ballyrory, Ballyscullion, Ballyskeagh, Ballystrudder, Ballyvoy, Ballywalter, Balnamore, Banagher, Banbridge, Bangor, Bannfoot, Belcoo, Bellaghy, Bellanaleck, Bellarena, Belleek, Belleeks, Benburb, Bendooragh, Beragh, Bessbrook, Blackskull, Blackwatertown, Blaney, Bleary, Boho, Brackaville, Bready, Brockagh, Brookeborough, Broomhill, Broughshane, Bryansford, Buckna, Burnfoot, Burren, Bushmills
Caledon, Camlough, Campsie, Capecastle, Cappagh, Cargan, Carnalbanagh, Carncastle, Carnlough, Carnteel, Carrickaness, Carrickfergus, Carrickmore, Carrowclare, Carrowdore, Carrybridge, Carryduff, Castlecaulfield, Castledawson, Castlederg, Castlerock, Castlewellan, Charlemont, Clabby, Clady (Co. Londonderry), Clady (Co. Tyrone), Cladymore, Clanabogan, Claudy, Clogh, Clogher, Cloghy, Clonmore, Clonoe, Clough, Cloughmills, Coagh, Coalisland, Cogry-Kilbride, Coleraine, Collegeland, Comber,(convoy) Conlig, Cookstown, Corbet, Corrinshego, Craigarogan, Craigavon, Cranagh, Crawfordsburn, Creagh, Creggan, Crossgar, Crossmaglen, Crumlin, Cullaville, Cullybackey, Cullyhanna, Culmore, Culnady, Curran, Cushendall, Cushendun
Darkley, Derryadd, Derrycrin, Derrygonnelly, Derryhale, Derrylin, Derrymacash, Derrymore, Derrynaflaw, Derrynoose, Derrytrasna, Derryvore, Dervock, Desertmartin, Doagh, Dollingstown, Donagh, Donaghadee, Donaghcloney, Donaghey, Donaghmore, Donegore, Dooish, Dorsey, Douglas Bridge, Downhill, Downpatrick, Draperstown, Drinns Bay, Dromara, Dromintee, Dromore (Co. Down), Dromore (Co. Tyrone), Drumaness, Drumbeg, Drumbo, Drumlaghy, Drumlough (near Hillsborough), Drumlough (near Rathfriland), Drummullan, Drumnacanvy, Drumnakilly, Drumquin, Drumraighland, Drumsurn, Dunadry, Dundonald, Dundrod, Dundrum, Dungannon, Dungiven, Dunloy, Dunnamanagh, Dunnamore, Dunnaval, Dunseverick
Edenaveys, Edenderry (Co. Down), Edenderry (Co. Tyrone), Ederney, Eglinton, Eglish, Enniskillen, Erganagh, Eskra
Feeny, Fintona, Fivemiletown, Florencecourt, Foreglen, Forkill
Galbally, Gamblestown, Garrison, Garvagh, Garvaghey, Garvetagh, Gawley's Gate, Gibson's Hill, Gilford, Gillygooly, Glack, Glebe, Glenarm, Glenavy, Glenmornan, Glenoe, Glenone, Glynn, Gortaclare, Gortin, Gortnahey, Goshedan, Gracehill, Grange Corner, Granville, Greencastle, Greenisland, Greyabbey, Greysteel, Groggan, Groomsport, Gulladuff
Halfpenny Gate, Hamiltonsbawn, Helen's Bay, Hillhall, Hillsborough, Hilltown, Holywell, Holywood
Inishrush, Irvinestown
Jonesborough
Katesbridge, Keady, Kells-Connor, Kellswater, Kesh, Keshbridge, Kilcoo, Kildress, Kilkeel, Killadeas, Killaloo, Killay, Killead, Killeen, Killen, Killeter, Killinchy, Killough, Killowen, Killylea, Killyleagh, Killyman, Killywool, Kilmore (Co. Armagh), Kilrea, Kilskeery, Kinallen, Kinawley, Kircubbin, Knockcloghrim, Knockmoyle, Knocknacarry
Lack, Landahaussy, Largy, Larne, Lawrencetown, Letterbreen, Lettershendoney, Limavady, Lisbellaw, Lislea, Lisnadill, Lisnarick, Lisnaskea, Loughbrickland, Loughgall, Loughgilly, Loughguile, Loughinisland, Loughmacrory, Loup, Lower Ballinderry, Lurgan, Lurganare, Lurganure, Lurganville. Leitrim
Macken, Macosquin, Madden, Maghaberry, Maghera, Magheraconluce, Magherafelt, Magheralin, Magheramason, Magheramorne, Magheraveely, Maghery, Maguiresbridge, Markethill, Martinstown, Maydown, Mayobridge, Mazetown, Meigh, Middletown, Milford, Millbank, Mill Bay, Millisle, Milltown (Co. Antrim), Moira, Monea, Moneyglass, Moneymore, Moneyneany, Moneyreagh, Moneyslane, Monteith, Moortown, Moss-Side, Mountfield, Mountjoy, Mounthill, Mountnorris, Moy, Moygashel, Mullaghbawn, Mullaghboy, Mullaghbrack, Mullaghglass, Mullavilly-Laurelvale
Newbuildings, Newcastle, Newtown Crommelin, Newtownabbey, Newtownards, Newtownbutler, Newtowncloghoge, Newtownhamilton, Newtownstewart, Nixon's Corner, Newmills
Omagh
Park, Parkgate, Plumbridge, Pomeroy, Portadown, Portaferry, Portavogie, Portballintrae, Portbraddon, Portglenone, Portrush, Portstewart, Poyntzpass
Randalstown, Rasharkin, Rathfriland, Ravernet, Richhill, Ringsend, Rock, Rosslea, Rostrevor, Roughfort, Rousky
Saintfield, Sandholes, Scarva, Scotch Street, Seaforde, Seskinore, Shanmaghery, Shanvey, Sheeptown, Shrigley, Silverbridge, Sion Mills, Sixmilecross, Skea, Spa, Spamount, Springfield, Stewartstown, Stoneyford, Strabane, Straid, Straidarran, Strangford, Stranocum, Strathfoyle, Straw, Swatragh
Tamlaght (Co. Fermanagh), Tamlaght (Co. Londonderry), Tamnamore, Tandragee, Tartaraghan, Teemore, Templepatrick, Tempo, The Birches, Tobermore, Toome, Trillick, Trory, Tullyhogue, Tullyhommon, Tullylish, Tullynacross, Tullywiggan, Tynan
Upper Ballinderry, Upperlands
Victoria Bridge
Waringsford, Waringstown, Warrenpoint, Washing Bay, Waterfoot, Whitecross, Whitehead, Whiterock

</doc>
<doc id="147474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147474" title="List of towns in Northern Ireland">
List of towns in Northern Ireland

The following is a list of towns in Northern Ireland, by letter:

</doc>
<doc id="147477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147477" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/The Teengers">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2008/The Teengers

" () has nominated this page for deletion for the reason:"
"Please discuss this deletion below, but keep in mind that and that there may be options that are not just "keep" or "delete", such as merging."
This request is due to close seven days after it was filed; that is on approx. Saturday, 3 January 2009 at 3:47 am, although it may be closed quicker due to .<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="147478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147478" title="Burnt Hill">
Burnt Hill

Burnt Hill is a hamlet in Berkshire, England. It can be found in the civil parish of Yattendon.

</doc>
<doc id="147479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147479" title="Bar Hill">
Bar Hill

Bar Hill is a village that can be found about 4 miles (7 km) northwest of Cambridge, in South Cambridgeshire, Cambridgeshire, England. In 2001 there were 4,233 people living in Bar Hill.

</doc>
<doc id="147480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147480" title="Yielden">
Yielden

Yielden is a village in Bedfordshire. It is near the borders with Northamptonshire and Cambridgeshire.

</doc>
<doc id="147485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147485" title="Mislea, Prahova">
Mislea, Prahova

Mislea is a commune of Prahova County in Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="147506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147506" title="Dartmouth College">
Dartmouth College

Dartmouth College () is a private, coeducational university in Hanover, New Hampshire. Incorporated as "Trustees of Dartmouth College,"
it is a member of the Ivy League and one of the nine Colonial Colleges founded before the American Revolution. In addition to its undergraduate liberal arts program, Dartmouth has medical, engineering, and business schools, as well as 19 graduate programs in the arts and sciences. With a total enrollment of 5,848, Dartmouth is the smallest school in the Ivy League.
The college was established in 1769 by Congregational minister Eleazar Wheelock who wanted to use the college to Christianize the Native Americans. In 2004, Booz Allen Hamilton selected Dartmouth College as a model of institutional endurance "whose record of endurance has had implications and benefits for all American organizations, both academic and commercial," citing "Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward" and Dartmouth's successful self-reinvention in the late 1800s. Dartmouth alumni, from Daniel Webster to the many donors in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, have been famously involved in their college.
Dartmouth is on a rural 269-acre (1.1 km²) campus in the Upper Valley region of New Hampshire. Given the College's isolated location, participation in athletics and the school's Greek system is high. Dartmouth's 34 varsity sports teams compete in the Ivy League conference of the NCAA Division I. Students are also well known for preserving a variety of strong campus traditions.
In 2010 Dartmouth College joined the Matariki Network of Universities (MNU) together with University of Tübingen (Germany), Durham University (UK), Queen’s University (Canada), University of Otago (New Zealand), University of Western Australia (Australia) and Uppsala University (Sweden).

</doc>
<doc id="147527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147527" title="Oldham Athletic A.F.C.">
Oldham Athletic A.F.C.

Oldham Athletic Football Club is a football that plays in Football League One. The club plays its games at Boundary Park in Oldham, England.
The club has never won any major trophies through their history, though have made several appearances in the late rounds of the FA Cup and Football League Cup.
The club was created as Pine Villa Football Club in 1895, but changed to the current name in 1899. Almost immediately, Oldham became a professional team before joining the Football League in 1907. After struggling between the First World War and the Second World War, they became more stable in 1969—when legendary manager Jimmy Frizzell took over. Under Frizzell, the club won 200 of their 544 competitive games and were promoted to higher levels twice.
After leaving in the summer of 1982, Joe Royle took over as the club's manager during which time Oldham again had a successful period. Under Royle, the club won 225 games of 608—a slightly higher winning percentage than under Frizzell. In the early 1990s, under Royle, Oldham reached the semi-finals of the FA Cup and the final of the Football League Cup, losing every time. However, in the 1990–91 season, the club won the Football League Second Division and were promoted to the First Division for the first time in over 70 years. In the 1992–93 season, Oldham was a group of 24 teams that were the founding members of the Premier League—England's top division of football. After Royle's departure to Everton F.C., Oldham struggled and were relegated twice in four seasons.
In the early 2000s, Oldham Athletic almost went bankrupt. Businessman Chris Moore decided to purchase the club, promising to return to the Premier League within five years. However, later that season, he left the club, which also left behind much debt and a weak team. However, another businessman purchased the club in 2004, saving them from liquidation. In the 2006–07, under current manager John Sheridan, Oldham almost were promoted to the Football Championship, but lost in the semi-final of the play-offs.

</doc>
<doc id="147538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147538" title="Bagpuss">
Bagpuss

Bagpuss is a popular children's television series shown on BBC television. It was shown in 1974. Although only 13 episodes were made, it was so popular that it was repeated regularly until 1987. The series was made by Peter Firmin and Oliver Postgate through their company Smallfilms. 
The character Bagpuss was a toy cat. Bagpuss was described in each programme as "an old, saggy cloth cat, baggy, and a bit loose at the seams".
Each programme began in the same way. It started by looking through old sepia photographs. There was a shop called “Bagpuss & Co”. The cat sat in the shop window. The owner of the shop was a little girl named Emily. The shop did not sell anything. Instead, Emily would find things that were broken and lost. She fixed them and put them in the shop window. Emily hoping that the owners of the things would come and get them. She would leave the fixed thing in front of her favourite toy: the stuffed cat Bagpuss. Each programme began with these words:
When Emily had left, Bagpuss would wake up. The programme changed from sepia to colour film, and the toys in the shop would come to life. There was Gabriel the toad, a rag doll called Madeleine, and a wooden woodpecker which was a bookend (something to stop a row of books falling over) called Professor Yaffle. Professor Yaffle spoke like a clever professor. He had a German accent and wore a pince-nez. He would look at the object and tell the audience what it was used for. There were also some mice. They lived in the “mouse organ” (a pun on the word mouthorgan). The mouse organ played music and the mice squeaked in high voices. All the voices except those of Madeleine and Gabriel were done by Oliver Postgate who also wrote the stories.
At the end of the programme, Professor Yaffle would yawn again and fall asleep. The colour changed back to sepia and the toys became toys again as these words were spoken:

</doc>
<doc id="147540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147540" title="Oliver Postgate">
Oliver Postgate

Oliver Postgate (born Hendon, Middlesex, England, 12 April 1925 died Broadstairs, Kent, 8 December 2008) was an English animator, puppeteer and writer.
He made several series of children’s programmes for British television. They all became very popular. They include "Pingwings", "Pogles' Wood", "Noggin the Nog", "Ivor the Engine", "Clangers" and "Bagpuss". They were all made by Smallfilms, the company he set up with Peter Firmin. They were shown on the BBC between the 1950s and the 1980s, and on ITV from 1959 to the present day. In a 1999 poll, "Bagpuss" was voted the most popular children's television programme of all time.
He was born in Hendon, Middlesex, England. He went to Woodstock School and Woodhouse County Secondary School in London. When World War II started he was evacuated to Devon and he finished his studies at Dartington Hall School. He refused to fight in the war, so he was sent to prison. However, he was soon let out because he volunteered to be a stretcher bearer for the Red Cross.
In 1948 he trained as an actor at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, but he never became a professional actor. He was more interested in animation. He created the character of a pig made out of cardboard that played the violin. The BBC were not interested in his idea. Seven years later he joined the ITV London company Associated-Rediffusion as a stage manager. He worked on children’s programmes and made props. 
Postgate thought he could make better programmes than the ones he was working on, so he created "Alexander the Mouse", a story about a mouse that was born to be king. Postgate met an artist called Peter Firmin. He was good at drawing animation characters. The two men started to work together and for 30 years they created their well-known television series, running their own company called Smallfilms. The characters in their stories were moved by magnets under a table. They created "The Saga of Noggin the Nog" (1959-1965). It was based on old Norse legends. Then came "The Seal of Neptune" (1960), a story about horses that lived under the sea. They created "The Pogles" which was about a witch, but after the first broadcast it was thought to be too frightening for children. Then came "The Clangers" (1969-1974 which was their first colour production. Their most famous creation was "Bagpuss", the story of a toy cat made of rags that sat in a shop window.
In 1987 the University of Kent at Canterbury awarded an honorary degree to Postgate. Postgate said that it should really be Bagpuss who got the degree. He later showed Bagpuss wearing academic dress
Postgate married Prudence Myers in 1957, becoming stepfather to her three children The couple had twin boys in 1959 and another son in 1964. Prudence died in 1982. Naomi Linnell was his partner in the last years of his life.
He wrote an autobiography "Seeing Things" which was published in 2000. In his book he looked back at the programmes he made. He explained why they were so popular by saying: “They are simple, and they are well-founded in a safe place. They are full of fun and, like a good meal, they are rich and satisfying.”
He died in Broadstairs, near his home on the Kent coast, on 8 December 2008.
Obituary to Oliver Postgate, The Independent, 10 Dec 2008 p. 34

</doc>
<doc id="147541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147541" title="Gateshead Garden Festival">
Gateshead Garden Festival

The Gateshead Garden Festival was the fourth of the United Kingdom's five National Garden Festivals. It was held between May and October 1990, in Gateshead, Tyne and Wear. The festival took place for 157 days. Over three million people went to the festival.

</doc>
<doc id="147542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147542" title="Glasgow Garden Festival">
Glasgow Garden Festival

The Glasgow Garden Festival was the third of the United Kingdom's five National Garden Festivals. It was the only one to take place in Scotland. It was held in Glasgow between April and September 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="147543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147543" title="Animator">
Animator

An animator is an artist who makes drawings for movies. The animator makes many drawings which are called "frames". These are played very quickly, one after another, to create animation. It makes it look as if the pictures are moving. 
Animators can work in many areas including movies, television, video games, and the internet. There are many ways of making animations. Animators usually work with other people to form a team. These may be other animators, but can also include layout artists (who design the backgrounds, lighting, and camera angles), storyboard artists (who draw panels of the action from the script), background artists (who paint the "scenery"), voice actors who speak the words, and musicians who make the music.

</doc>
<doc id="147545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147545" title="British Rail Class 116">
British Rail Class 116

The British Rail Class 116 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby from 1957 to 1961.

</doc>
<doc id="147546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147546" title="British Rail Class 117">
British Rail Class 117

The British Rail Class 117 diesel multiple units were built by Pressed Steel from 1959 to 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="147556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147556" title="Ricky Sbragia">
Ricky Sbragia

Richard 'Ricky' Spragia (born May 26, 1956) is a former Scottish footballer who currently manages Sunderland. He was appointed in late December 2008 after the previous manager Roy Keane walked out after a run of bad results which had left Sunderland towards the foot of the table. In his first four games as caretaker manager he managed two wins and a draw and this was enough to get him the unanimous vote of the board and was appointed with a permanent contract on December 27, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="147558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147558" title="Flag of Austria">
Flag of Austria

The official Flag of Austria is the flag of the European country, Austria. It has three horizontal stripes, two red ones and a white one.

</doc>
<doc id="147560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147560" title="British Rail Class 118">
British Rail Class 118

The British Rail Class 118 diesel multiple units were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage & Wagon Company (BRCW) and introduced from 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="147569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147569" title="British Rail Class 119">
British Rail Class 119

The British Rail Class 119 DMUs were used on the Western Region and on services in the Midlands that used units that were based at Tyseley Depot. Soon after they were introduced, many of the DMUs were moved to Cardiff. This was so that they could serve the intermediate stations on outer suburban services from London Paddington to Oxford. These were as 7-car sets, with the addition of Hawksworth composites adapted to run as DMU trailers.

</doc>
<doc id="147570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147570" title="Donna Noble (Doctor Who)">
Donna Noble (Doctor Who)

Donna Noble is a character in the British television series "Doctor Who". She is played by Catherine Tate. She is a secretary from Chiswick, London. She is a companion of the Tenth Doctor. She appears in one scene at the end of the last episode of the 2006 series, "Doomsday" (named in the credits only as "The Bride"), and in the second Christmas special, "The Runaway Bride". The character returned as The Doctor's full-time companion for the whole of the fourth series in 2008.
During the 2006 series Christmas episode "The Runaway Bride", Donna Noble is a temporary secretary at H.C. Clements in London, a security firm which, unknown to her, concealed the Torchwood Institute up until its collapse following the events of "Doomsday", and was then taken over by an alien intelligence. Her parents are Geoff and Sylvia Noble.
On Christmas Eve, the day of her wedding, she is accidentally pulled into the TARDIS because she has been drugged with Huon particles by her fiancé, Lance Bennett, because he was told to do so by Empress of the Racnoss. She aids the Doctor in defeating the Racnoss Empress, but says no to his invitation to travel with him — she is frightened not only by his adventures, but also by the Doctor himself. Having seen him commit genocide on the Racnoss, she urges him to find a new companion to act as his moral support. It was revealed later in "Turn Left" that the Doctor would have been killed while stopping the Racnoss if Donna was not there.
Reappearing in April 2008's Series four premiere, "Partners in Crime", Donna has become dissatisfied with regular life and more interested in the bigger picture. She regrets declining the Doctor's offer and has been investigating unusual phenomena in the hopes of finding the Doctor for some time. When investigating Miss Foster and Adipose Industries, the Londoner and the Time Lord are finally re-united. She expresses her regret to the Doctor for not joining him and after stopping Foster's plans to convert the whole of London into Adipose children she joins him in the TARDIS as a regular companion. She makes it explicit, however, that she has no romantic attachment to him as Martha Jones and Rose Tyler did.
In "The Fires of Pompeii", Donna continually argues with the Doctor over the moral issue of whether or not he should save the inhabitants of Pompeii from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius the next day. Ultimately, they are forced to cause the eruption to happen, weighing the destruction of the city against the fate of the whole world.
Donna was the Doctor's full time companion for all 13 episodes of Series 4. Her return to the series sees her with her maternal grandfather, recurring character Wilfred Mott, as well as her mother, Sylvia. Mott is played by Bernard Cribbins, whose appearance as a newspaper seller in Voyage of the Damned was merged into his new role following the death of Howard Attfield who played Donna's father in "The Runaway Bride". Donna has encountered the Racnoss, the Adipose, the Pyroviles, the Ood, the Sontarans, The Hath, Vespiforms, the Vashta Nerada, the Judoon, the Shadow Proclamation, and the Daleks. 
In the final episode of the fourth series Journey's End the Doctor erased Donna's memory of him and left her on Earth. He warned that she'd "burn up" if she remembered him.
Donna is involved in The End Of Time. At Donna's Marriage, The Doctor gives Sylvia a winning Lottery ticket before moving on to meet the first of his companions, Rose Tyler.

</doc>
<doc id="147571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147571" title="British Rail Class 120">
British Rail Class 120

The Class 120 was a cross-country DMU. It was made up of three units. The first unit was built in 1958 at the British Rail Swindon Works.

</doc>
<doc id="147573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147573" title="British Rail Class 121">
British Rail Class 121

Sixteen Class 121 single-car driving motor vehicles were built from 1960, numbered 55020-55035. These were supplemented by ten trailer vehicles, numbered 56280-289 (later renumbered 54280-289). They had a top speed of 70 mph, with slam-doors, and vacuum brakes. The driving motor vehicles were nicknamed "Bubble Cars" by some enthusiasts.

</doc>
<doc id="147574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147574" title="British Rail Class 122">
British Rail Class 122

The British Rail Class 122 diesel multiple units were built by Gloucester RC&W in 1958. Twenty single-car driving motor vehicles, called "Bubble Cars", were built, numbered 55000-55019. These were supplemented by ten trailer vehicles, numbered 56290-299 (later renumbered 54290-299).

</doc>
<doc id="147575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147575" title="British Rail Class 123">
British Rail Class 123

The Class 123 was a design of Diesel Multiple Unit built for British Rail in 1963. They were built by British Rail at Swindon Works, and designed like all Swindon units as inter-city sets. Ten of the four-car sets were built and introduced in 1963. The units bear a visible similarity to the British Rail Class 309, however there is no 'relation' here as the two types were built by different manufacturers for different markets.

</doc>
<doc id="147578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147578" title="British Rail Class 124">
British Rail Class 124

The British Rail Class 124 was a class of initially six-car Diesel Multiple Units used and built specifically for the trans-pennine route. They were progressively shortened during their lifetime, finally finishing as three-car sets. They were all withdrawn by the late 1980s. There was a movement to preserve a set of this class, however it was unsuccessful and eventually all were lost.

</doc>
<doc id="147579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147579" title="British Rail Class 125">
British Rail Class 125

The Class 125 was a design of three car Diesel Multiple Unit built for British Rail in 1958. They were high-density units, externally very similar to the Class 116. They were built specifically for the Lea Valley Line, were all withdrawn in 1977, and none survive to this day. Like many first-generation DMU classes, they never carried their 125xxx TOPS set numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="147580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147580" title="British Rail Class 126">
British Rail Class 126

The introduction of what became the Class 126 diesel multiple units originated in a British Transport Commission report of 1952 that suggested the trial use of diesel railcars. BR's Swindon Works were chosen to design and build express units for the ex-North British Railway Edinburgh Waverley to Glasgow Queen Street route. Swindon built a second batch in 1959/60 for use on services from Glasgow to Ayrshire.

</doc>
<doc id="147581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147581" title="British Rail Class 127">
British Rail Class 127

The British Rail Class 127 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby in 1959. Thirty 4-car units were built, formed of two outer driving motor vehicles, sandwiching two intermediate trailers. The technical description of such as 4-car unit was DMBS + TSL + TS + DMBS.

</doc>
<doc id="147582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147582" title="British Rail Class 128">
British Rail Class 128

British Rail Class 128 was a class of diesel multiple unit, built for British Rail. Introduced in 1959, ten of the class were built by British United Traction, each with two 230 hp Leyland engines. The class was built specifically for parcels, and did not feature any passenger accommodation; fitted out with parcel racks and bike storages at each end. The last members of the class were withdrawn in 1991, and none were preserved. 

</doc>
<doc id="147583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147583" title="British Rail Class 129">
British Rail Class 129

The Class 129 was a class of single-car Diesel Multiple Unit built in 1955 for British Rail. Only three were built by Cravens and were introduced in 1958. The class was built for parcels traffic like the Class 128. One unit (55997) survived into departmental service being named 'Hydra'. The driving ends of a Class 129 car bore a visible similarity to that of the British Rail Class 105.

</doc>
<doc id="147591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147591" title="Master (Doctor Who)">
Master (Doctor Who)

The Master is a character in the British science fiction television series "Doctor Who". He is an evil Time Lord and is one of the biggest enemies of the Doctor.
When the Master first appeared in 1971, he was played by Roger Delgado. Delgado continued in the role until his death in 1973. Afterwards, Peter Pratt and Geoffrey Beevers played a decayed version of the Time Lord, until Anthony Ainley assumed the part in 1981. He remained until "Doctor Who"'s cancellation in 1989. In 1996, the Master was played by Eric Roberts in the TV movie. In the revived series, Derek Jacobi provided the character's re-introduction before handing over to John Simm, who portrayed the Master in the end of the 2007 series. Michelle Gomez took over the role in 2014.
The Master was once a childhood friend of the Doctor. In "The Sound of Drums" (2007), there is a brief clip of the young Master as the Doctor talks about his childhood. When they joined the Time Lord Academy at the age of eight, they were taken to look into the "Untempered Schism". This was a portal through which you could see the time vortex (the tunnel the TARDIS travels through as it travels in time) and see the full power of the Time Lords. He suggests that this is what made the Master went mad.
A would-be universal conqueror, the Master wants to control the universe (in "The Deadly Assassin" his ambitions were becoming "the master of all matter", and in "The Sound of Drums" he acknowledges that he chose his own name). His most distinctive ability is that of hypnotising people by fixing them with an intense stare, often accompanied by the phrase, "I am the Master, and you will obey me."
Some suspect that a character known as the War Chief in the episode "The War Games" is actually the Master in disguise. However, this has not been confirmed.
The Master and the Doctor are shown to have similar levels of intelligence, and were classmates on Gallifrey. This is mentioned several times in different stories ("The Five Doctors", "The Sea Devils" and "Terror of the Autons"). In the 2007 episode "Utopia", the Doctor calls the disguised Master a genius and shows an immense admiration for his intellect before discovering who he is.
Both the Doctor and the Master have been shown to be skilled hypnotists, although the Master's capacity to dominate – even by stare and voice alone – has been shown to be far more pronounced. The Master is also known to always survive death with no explanation other than "I escaped."
In the original "Doctor Who" series, the Master's TARDISes have fully functioning chameleon circuits and have appeared as many things.
By the time of the new series, it is unclear whether any of the Master's TARDISes still exist. In "Rise of the Cybermen", the Tenth Doctor claims that his TARDIS is the last one in existence although at the time of his saying this, he also thought he was the last Time Lord. In "Utopia", the Master resorts to stealing the Doctor's TARDIS, with no explanation of how he travelled from the Time War to the end of the universe.
The Master has also been featured in spin-offs of the series, which are of unclear canonicity and may not take place in the same continuity. The Master in these stories is, nevertheless, recognisably the same person.
One of the most important of these other appearances is David A. McIntee's "Master trilogy" of novels comprising "The Dark Path" and "First Frontier" in the Virgin Publishing lines and "The Face of the Enemy" for BBC Books, and the "Doctor Who" audio dramas produced by Big Finish Productions, in which Geoffrey Beevers has once again played the Master. Alex MacQueen has also played the Master in Big Finish audio dramas.
The Master returns in a new body and guise, that of a street preacher, in the previously mentioned "Doctor Who Magazine" (DWM) comic strip story "The Fallen", although the Doctor does not recognise him. The Master reveals himself a few stories later, in "The Glorious Dead" (DWM 287-296). The Master had survived the events of the television movie by encountering a cosmic being named Esterath in the time vortex. Esterath controls the Glory, the focal point of the Omniversal spectrum which underlies all existence. The Master's scheme to take control of the Glory fails, and he is banished to parts unknown (see Kroton). 
In "Character Assassin" (DWM 311), the Delgado Master visits the Land of Fiction and steals part of the technology behind it, wiping out several nineteenth century fictional villains as he goes. He can also be seen in the following comic strips set during the Pertwee era:
The "Doctor Who" role-playing game published by FASA in 1985 has two modules that give information about the Master. The modules identify the Meddling Monk as an alias the Master has used in the past.

</doc>
<doc id="147599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147599" title="Dartmouth University">
Dartmouth University

Dartmouth University was a university in New Hampshire which existed from 1817 to 1819. It was the result of an attempt by the state legislature to change Dartmouth College, a private college, into a public university but it did not happen.

</doc>
<doc id="147608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147608" title="Alex Kapranos">
Alex Kapranos

Alexander Paul Kapranos Huntley (born 20 March 1972), commonly known as Alex Kapranos, is an English musician. He is the lead singer of Scottish band Franz Ferdinand. Kapranos was born in Almondsbury, Gloucestershire to an English mother and Greek father.

</doc>
<doc id="147612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147612" title="Death from Above 1979">
Death from Above 1979

Death from Above 1979 is a Toronto-based Canadian band with two members. The members were Jesse F. Keeler on bass guitar, synths and backing vocals, and Sebastien Grainger on vocals and drums.

</doc>
<doc id="147613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147613" title="Valentin Berlinsky">
Valentin Berlinsky

Valentin Berlinsky (born Irkutsk, 19 January, 1925; died 15 December, 2008) was a Russian cellist. He played with the world-famous Borodin Quartet from 1945 when it was founded, and was a member until he retired in 2007.
Valentin Berlinsky was born in Irkutsk, Siberia. His father had learned the violin with the famous teacher Leopold Auer. He had formed his own string quartet, the Berlinksy Quartet, who had played in many parts of the Soviet Union. Valentin learned the violin from his father. Soon he was sent to Moscow where he studied the cello and played with the Moscow Youth Orchestra. He played in a student concert together with Mstislav Rostropovich in 1938.
For many years Berlinsky taught the cello at the Gnessin School of Music in Moscow. He did not often perform as soloist. He preferred being a member of a chamber music group.
In 1945 four young players formed a string quartet called the Moscow Conservatoire Quartet. Mstislav Rostropovich was the cellist, Rostislav Dubinsky and Nina Barshai played the violins and Rudolf Barshai played the viola. However, after a couple of weeks Rostropovich found he was too busy, so he suggested that Berlinsky should take his place. The four players that now formed the quartet signed an oath that they would be loyal and stay together as a group. They signed the oath with their own blood. Valentin often showed this piece of paper to people. For 60 years he kept a careful record of all the concerts they played. They called themselves the Borodin Quartet after the composer Alexander Borodin.
The four musicians first met Dmitri Shostakovich in 1946. They became famous for playing his string quartets. Shostakovich was to compose 15 string quartets. The Borodin Quartet were the most famous string quartet in the Soviet Union, but it was difficult for them to get permission to play in other countries until the fall of the Soviet Union.
Valentin Berlinsky retired from the Borodin Quartet in September 2007. His place was taken by his pupil, Vladimir Balshin, but Berlinsky still continued to help the quartet. 
He died on 15 December 2008, in Moscow, after a long illness. His daughter Lyudmila is a pianist.

</doc>
<doc id="147621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147621" title="Steve Lamacq">
Steve Lamacq

Steve Lamacq (born 16 October 1965) is a disc jockey for BBC radio stations. He is known by his nicknames Lammo or "The Cat". He was born in Basingstoke, Hampshire and grew up in Essex.

</doc>
<doc id="147627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147627" title="Intern">
Intern

Intern is the job title given to people who work in an organization which has an internship program. It is similar to an apprenticeship, but is the term more commonly used if the work takes place in office environments. The work in an internship is expected to be part of a desired learning experience for the intern. The specific requirements for being an intern vary widely.
Internship positions are posted online similarly to job postings, but focus instead on engaging students in real world projects before they have completed their studies. Internships are usually temporary positions, often lasting between one school term and one year. Internships may be paid or unpaid, dependent on the organization and type of work. Interns are sometimes given longer term job opportunities.

</doc>
<doc id="147628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147628" title="The Master">
The Master

The Master can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="147630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147630" title="Symphonie Fantastique (Berlioz)">
Symphonie Fantastique (Berlioz)

The Symphonie fantastique is a symphony written by the French composer Hector Berlioz. It is one of the most famous Romantic works for orchestra. The official title of the piece is Episode de la Vie d’un Artiste (An Episode in the Life of the Artist), but it is always called by its subtitle "Symphonie Fantastique" which means "Fantasy Symphony". The “Fantasy” refers to the story that is described by the music. ("Fantasy Symphony" is a better translation than "Fantastic Symphony" because "fantastique" is not like the modern meaning of the English word "fantastic").
The symphony lasts about 45 minutes and is divided into 5 movements. Berlioz himself wrote down the story that the music describes, just as Beethoven had done with his "Sixth Symphony". Berlioz’s work is about a young artist. In the music the young artist is represented by a tune. This tune is often heard during the symphony. That is why it is called an “"idée fixe"”, which means a “fixed idea”, i.e. an idea that keeps coming again and again. An "idée fixe" is what Wagner would have called a leitmotif (a tune which is always used to describe a particular person or thing in a piece of music). The first performance took place at the Paris Conservatoire in December 1830. Berlioz made several changes to the music between 1831 and 1845.
The symphony is played by an orchestra consisting of 2 flutes (2nd doubling piccolo), 2 oboes (2nd doubling cor anglais), 2 clarinets (1st doubling E-flat clarinet), 4 bassoons, 4 French horns, 2 trumpets, 2 cornets, 3 trombones, 2 ophicleides (originally one ophicleide and one serpent), 2 pairs of timpani, snare drum, cymbals, bass drum, bells in C and G, 2 harps, and strings.
The symphony is an example of programme music because it describes something apart from the music. In this case it describes a story. This is what the composer wrote:
First movement:
"A young artist was deeply in love with a girl who did not love him. He felt so desperately sad that he tried to poison himself with opium. He did not take enough to kill him. It just made him fall into a deep sleep. In this sleep he imagined all sorts of things. His beloved came to him in a dream. She changes into a musical theme (the "idée fixe") which he just cannot forget. He imagines her love and his tender feelings for her."
Second movement:
"He meets her at a ball. Everyone is dancing. He finds his beloved among the crowd."
Third movement:
"In the country he hears two shepherds who call to one another on their pipes. The trees sway gently in the wind. The young artist starts to feel happier. Then he sees his beloved again. He starts to worry that she may not want him any more. The shepherd music starts again, but it is only one of the shepherds playing. The sun sets. Far away a thunderstorm is heard."
The fourth movement:
"He dreams that he has killed his beloved in a fit of anger. He is now being taken to the scaffold where he will have his head chopped off. A march is played as he is taken away. For a moment he thinks of his beloved again, then the axe falls and he is executed."
The fifth movement:
"The artist is at the Witches’ Sabbath. There are lots of ghosts and monsters around who have come to watch him being buried. His beloved is heard, but her tune now sounds horrible. She has come to the Sabbath. She joins the witches and they dance while the funeral music is heard."
The first movement has a slow introduction. The tune heard on the violins is already nearly like the "idée fixe". The "idée fixe" is heard in its full form when the music goes into the fast section. It is played by the violins and solo flute. The rhythm that the lower string instruments play underneath is very agitated. The form of the movement is not much like the traditional sonata form. Berlioz was more interested in the "idée fixe" which keeps haunting the young artist all the way through.
The ball (i.e. a party with dancing) is represented in the music by a lively waltz. The two harps make it sound very graceful. Twice the waltz is interrupted by the "idée fixe".
The two shepherds who are playing to one another are represented by a cor anglais (sitting in the orchestra) and an oboe which is played offstage so that it sounds distant. Then the main gentle countryside theme is heard on solo flute and violins. The "idée fixe" returns in the middle of the movement. The sound of distant thunder at the end of the movement is played by four timpani.
The movement starts with timpani rumbling and horns starting up the march theme. Then the cellos and double basses start the march in its full form, soon taken over by the violins. Just before he is executed there is a short repetition of the "idée fixe" on a solo clarinet, then the axe falls (a loud chord) and his head falls into the basket (one plucked note passed from the violins, through the violas, cellos and then double basses).
The "idée fixe" has now become a "vulgar dance tune", it is played on the E-flat clarinet. There are lots of effects, including ghostly "col legno" playing in the strings, the bubbling of the witches' cauldron played by the wind instruments. As the dance reaches a climax we hear the Dies Irae (Day of Judgement) melody together with the "Ronde du Sabbat" (Sabbath Round) which is a wild fugue.
In 1827 Berlioz went to a performance of Shakespeare’s play "Hamlet". It was played in English by a theatre group from England. Berlioz fell in love with Irish actress Harriet Smithson who played the part of Ophelia, He did not actually meet her, he just saw her acting on stage, but he sent her lots of love letters, but she left Paris without meeting him. He then wrote his Symphonie Fantastique. He then wrote the symphony to describe his love for her and his unhappiness because she was not interested in him. When Harriet heard the symphony two years after it was first performed, she realized that it was a symphony about her. She eventually met Berlioz and they were married on 3 October 1833. For several years the marriage was happy, although they did not speak one another’s language. However, after nine years they separated.

</doc>
<doc id="147631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147631" title="Category:Compositions by Hector Berlioz">
Category:Compositions by Hector Berlioz


</doc>
<doc id="147639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147639" title="Christ's Hospital">
Christ's Hospital

Christ's Hospital is a boarding school in Sussex. The school was started in 1552. King Edward VI started it. The headmaster is John Franklin BA MEd Admin. It has 831 students. The school is very big.

</doc>
<doc id="147657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147657" title="Affluenza: When Too Much is Never Enough">
Affluenza: When Too Much is Never Enough

Affluenza: When Too Much is Never Enough is a 2005 book by Professor Clive Hamilton and Richard Denniss. "Affluenza" suggests that Western society consumes too many products and services. Hamilton and Denniss argue that people "aspire to the lifestyles of the rich and famous". They state that rates of stress, depression and obesity are high as people try to cope with the emptiness and disappointments of consumer life.

</doc>
<doc id="147659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147659" title="Gang of Four (band)">
Gang of Four (band)

Gang of Four are an English post-punk group from Leeds. The first line-up was singer Jon King, guitarist Andy Gill, bass guitarist Dave Allen and drummer Hugo Burnham. They were most popular from 1977 to 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="147668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147668" title="Bloc Québécois">
Bloc Québécois

The Bloc Québécois is a federal political party based in Canada that mainly believes Quebec should secede from Canada, also known as Quebec Separatism. The party is considered to be on the left. The leader of the party is Gilles Duceppe.

</doc>
<doc id="147672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147672" title="Angular Recording Corporation">
Angular Recording Corporation

Angular Recording Corporation is an independent record label that was first based in New Cross, South East London. It was started in June 2003 by two ex-Goldsmiths College students, Joe Daniel and Joe Margetts.

</doc>
<doc id="147703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147703" title="The Weather Makers">
The Weather Makers

The Weather Makers: The History and Future Impact of Climate Change (2005) is a book by Tim Flannery.
The book includes 36 short essays predicting the consequences of global warming. The book reviews the evidence about historical climate change and attempts to put our era into context. The book asserts that if atmospheric carbon dioxide levels continue to increase at current rates, the resulting climate change will cause mass species extinctions.
The book received much critical acclaim, and has won a major literary prize.

</doc>
<doc id="147706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147706" title="Mumia">
Mumia

Mumia (also pulvis mumiae, Mumia vera aegyptiaca) was a powder made from ground mummies. It was used as a drug, for good health, and as a coloring agent (a medium to dark brown) until the 1920s. Eating ground mumified corpses is a form of cannibalism.
The powder was said to work against almost any disease. To mummify a corpse, tar was used. It was said this tar had magical powers. It was also said to be an aphrodisiac. 

</doc>
<doc id="147714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147714" title="Nuclear or Not?">
Nuclear or Not?

Nuclear or Not? Does Nuclear Power Have a Place in a Sustainable Energy Future? is a 2007 book edited by Professor David Elliott. The book offers various views on nuclear power. Authors include:
Professor Elliott calls for continued debate on the nuclear power issue. He is Professor of Technology Policy at the Open University, and has developed courses on technological innovation, focusing in particular on renewable energy technology.

</doc>
<doc id="147715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147715" title="Nuclear Nebraska">
Nuclear Nebraska

Nuclear Nebraska: The Remarkable Story of the Little County That Couldn’t Be Bought (ISBN 0814474306) is a 2007 book by Susan Cragin which follows the controversy about a proposed low level nuclear waste dump which was planned for Boyd County, Nebraska. 
In 1989, two multinational corporations and several government agencies put forward a proposal for the waste dump and offered payment of $3 million a year for 40 years. However, the residents of the largely uneducated Boyd County farming community chose to resist the offer and controversy followed for almost two decades. During this time, the community was transformed "from a small group of isolated farmers to a defiant band of environmentalists". The opposition of the community eventually succeeded, and the license to build the dump was denied.

</doc>
<doc id="147716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147716" title="Hiroshima (book)">
Hiroshima (book)

Hiroshima (ISBN 0-679-72103-7) is a magazine article written by Pulitzer Prize winner John Hersey that appeared in "The New Yorker" in August 1946, one year after the United States dropped an atomic bomb on the city of Hiroshima, Japan. The article was soon made into a book. It described how the bombing affected the lives of six individuals:
Each account is followed by a brief statement describing how close each person was to the center of the blast. 

</doc>
<doc id="147717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147717" title="Railways in Melbourne">
Railways in Melbourne

Melbourne has a long history of railway building. The city's first railway opened in 1854, when in 1834 the city itself did not exist. The network then grew as lines were built throughout the suburbs, reaching a peak by the 1900s. Electrification of the system was carried out from 1919, with electric multiple unit operation starting at the same time.

</doc>
<doc id="147719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147719" title="Non-Nuclear Futures">
Non-Nuclear Futures

Non-Nuclear Futures: The Case for an Ethical Energy Strategy is a 1975 book by Amory B. Lovins and John H. Price. The book says that the nuclear power debate is not about technical disputes but relates to different personal views (personal values). The personal values that make a high-energy society work are all too apparent, and the values associated with an alternate view relate to thrift, simplicity, diversity, neighbourliness, craftsmanship, and humility.
Lovins and Price say that these two different sets of personal values lead to two very different policy paths relating to future energy supplies. The first is high-energy nuclear, centralized, electric; the second is lower energy, non-nuclear, decentralized, less electrified, softer technology.

</doc>
<doc id="147725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147725" title="The Clean Tech Revolution">
The Clean Tech Revolution

The Clean Tech Revolution: The Next Big Growth and Investment Opportunity, is a 2007 book by Ron Pernick and Clint Wilder. They say that using clean technologies is a profitable enterprise that is moving steadily into mainstream business. Clean technologies are seen to be important for economic growth.
Pernick and Wilder highlight eight major clean technology areas: solar power, wind power, biofuels, green buildings, personal transportation, the smart grid, mobile applications (such as portable fuel cells), and water filtration. Very large corporations such as GE, Toyota and Sharp, and investment firms such as Goldman Sachs are spending billions of dollars on clean technology.
Pernick and Wilder say that, in the 1970s, clean technology was considered “alternative”. Even at the start of the 21st century, the term "clean tech" was not yet widely used. But now, throughout much of the world, in trends large and small, there is "the beginning of a revolution that is changing the places where we live and work, the products we manufacture and purchase, and the development plans of cities, regional governments, and nations around the globe."
Pernick and Wilder highlight eight major clean technology sectors: solar power, wind power, biofuels, green buildings, personal transportation, the smart grid, mobile applications, and water filtration. The authors explain how investors, entrepreneurs, and individuals can profit from technological innovation in these areas. Pernick and Wilder identify some specific clean technologies, companies, and regions that are leading the way.
The book also explains that nuclear power and clean coal are not clean technologies. Apart from the risks associated with nuclear power, "multibillion-dollar nuclear plants are simply not cost-effective when compared with other energy sources." The authors also believe that "clean coal" is an oxymoron for a myriad of reasons, including the sheer number of coal mine-related deaths and the fact that coal-fired plants, even some cleaner ones, are major contributors to serious illnesses such as asthma, heart disease, and mercury poisoning.
Emerging clean tech cities are seen to include Copenhagen, where wind power generates 20 percent of Denmark's electricity, and Chicago, a leader in "green" buildings saving energy, heating and cooling costs.
Pernick and Wilder identify six major forces, which they call the six C’s, that are pushing clean technology into the mainstream and driving rapid growth and expansion: costs, capital, competition, China, consumers, and climate.
In a September 2007 article in "Renewable Energy Access" Wilder explains that, while some hurdles remain, the key solar trends mapped out in "The Clean Tech Revolution"—scaling up manufacturing and driving down costs—are coming to pass:
From the Nevada desert to the roofs of Wal-Mart stores to the legendary plains of Spain, solar is entering a bold, bright new era. Each week, solar seems to be winning new enthusiasts like Forbes, new investors of all stripes, and new large-scale business users like Wal-Mart, Macy's and Kohl's. Late last month, North Carolina Governor Mike Easley signed that state's first renewable portfolio standard into law, which includes a solar set-aside.
Investment money is pouring in, production lines are humming and expanding, the silicon shortage is being addressed, and the long-fought challenge of bringing solar to scale (the title of a 2002 Clean Edge report) is finally showing real hope. Last month, red-hot Chinese solar wafer supplier LDK Solar (whose second-quarter revenue grew 700%) announced manufacturing expansions that would raise its production capacity above 1,600 megawatts (MW) by the end of 2009. German solar cell producer Ersol Solar Energy just inked a contract for 1 billion euros to supply Germany PV module company Solon AG for 11 years.
Ernst & Young and Dow Jones VentureOne have reported that investments in clean technology companies in the first half of 2007 have reached $1.1 billion. The research found that clean technology investments are poised to increase by more than 35% in 2007 compared with 2006. Very large corporations such as GE, Toyota and Sharp, and investment firms such as Goldman Sachs are now making multi-billion dollar investments in clean technology.

</doc>
<doc id="147726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147726" title="The State of the World">
The State of the World

The State of the World is a book published annually since 1984 by the Worldwatch Institute. The series attempts to identify the Earth’s most significant environmental challenges. The 1998 through 2003 editions are available as a free (PDF) download from the Worldwatch website.

</doc>
<doc id="147729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147729" title="Electrical substation">
Electrical substation

An electrical substation is a subsidiary station of an electricity generation, transmission and distribution system where voltage is transformed from high to low or the reverse using transformers. Electric power may flow through several substations between generating plant and consumer, and may be changed in voltage in several steps.

</doc>
<doc id="147730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147730" title="Winning the Oil Endgame">
Winning the Oil Endgame

Winning the Oil Endgame is a 2005 book by Amory B. Lovins, published by the Rocky Mountain Institute. It talks about four ways to reduce oil (petroleum) dependence in the United States:
The authors suggest that oil dependence is a problem we need no longer have. U.S. oil dependence can be profitably eliminated by proven and attractive technologies. The authors argue that America can lead the world into the post-petroleum era and create a vibrant economy. (p.xiii)
Amory Lovins has published 28 books and hundreds of papers. His work has been recognized by the Alternative Nobel, Onassis, Nissan, Shingo and Mitchell prizes, a MacArthur Fellowship, the Happold Medal, eight honorary doctorates, and the Heinz, Lindbergh, World Technology, and Hero of the Planet Awards. Lovins has also acted as a consultant to many Fortune 500 companies.

</doc>
<doc id="147761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147761" title="The Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management">
The Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management

The Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management is a 2008 book by Pat Hutchings, Mike Kingsford and Ove Hoegh-Guldberg. This comprehensive guide describes the organisms and ecosystems of Australia's Great Barrier Reef, as well as the biological, chemical and physical processes that influence them. Contemporary challenges such as climate change, coral bleaching, coral disease and coral reef fishing are also discussed. The book also includes a field guide to help people identify the common animals and plants on the reef. The book has many illustrations and contributions from 33 international experts.

</doc>
<doc id="147762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147762" title="Betrayers of the Truth">
Betrayers of the Truth

Betrayers of the Truth: Fraud and Deceit in the Halls of Science is a book written in 1983 by William Broad and Nicholas Wade. The book is asks questions about of some beliefs about what science is and the method used by scientists to do science. The authors shows examples that have to do with how scientific research is done. It talks about making up results and making up of whole experiments.

</doc>
<doc id="147763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147763" title="David Suzuki: The Autobiography">
David Suzuki: The Autobiography

David Suzuki: The Autobiography is the 2006 autobiography of Canadian science writer and broadcaster David Suzuki. The book focuses mostly on his life since the 1987 publication of his first autobiography, "Metamorphosis: Stages in a Life". It begins with a chronological account of his childhood, academic years, and broadcasting career. In later chapters, Suzuki adopts a memoir style, writing about themes such as his relationship with Australia, his experiences in Brazil and Papua New Guinea, the founding of the David Suzuki Foundation, and his thoughts on climate change, celebrity status, technology, and death. Throughout, Suzuki highlights the continuing impact of events from his childhood.
This is Suzuki's forty-third book and, he says, his last. Critics have called the book candid, sincere, and charming, with insightful commentary if occasionally flat stories. Suzuki's scientific background is reflected in the writing's rational and analytic style.
Suzuki's autobiography spent four weeks at #1 on the "Maclean's" list of non-fiction best-sellers and six weeks at #6 on the "Globe and Mail's" list. The book won two awards in 2007: the Canadian Booksellers' Association's Libris Award for Non-Fiction Book of the Year and the British Columbia Booksellers' Choice Award. The publishers, Greystone Books and Douglas & McIntyre, won the CBA Libris Award for Marketing Achievement of the Year.

</doc>
<doc id="147769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147769" title="Amory Lovins">
Amory Lovins

Amory Bloch Lovins is Chairman and Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute. For four decades he has worked in energy policy and related areas.
Lovins worked professionally as an environmentalist in the 1970s and since then as an analyst of a "soft energy path" for the United States and other nations. He has promoted energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources, and the generation of energy at or near the site where the energy is actually used. Lovins has also promoted a "negawatt revolution" arguing that utility customers do not want kilowatt-hours of electricity; they want energy services. In the 1990s, his work with Rocky Mountain Institute included the design of an ultra-efficient automobile, the Hypercar. 
Lovins has received ten honorary doctorates and won many awards. He has provided expert testimony in eight countries, briefed 19 heads of state, and published 29 books. These books include "Winning the Oil Endgame", "Small is Profitable", "Factor Four", and "Natural Capitalism". In 2009, "Time magazine" named Lovins as one of the world's 100 most influential people.

</doc>
<doc id="147772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147772" title="Category:People from Washington, D.C.">
Category:People from Washington, D.C.


</doc>
<doc id="147773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147773" title="Daniel Faulkner">
Daniel Faulkner

Daniel Faulkner (1955 – 1981) was a Philadelphia police officer who was murdered on December 9, 1981, a murder that Mumia Abu-Jamal was convicted of, but which many people think Mumia did not do. Faulkner was 25 years old at the time of his death.

</doc>
<doc id="147775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147775" title="James Hansen">
James Hansen

James E. Hansen (born March 29, 1941 in Denison, Iowa) headed the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City, a part of the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, Earth Sciences Division until early 2013. He is currently an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University. Hansen is best known for his research in the field of climatology, his testimony on climate change to congressional committees in the 1980s that helped raise broad awareness of the global warming issue, and his continuing advocacy of action to limit the impacts of climate change. He has been a critic of the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush Administration's stances on climate change.
Hansen studied astronomy and physics in the 1960s at the University of Iowa. He did scientific research on the atmospheres of other planets, and later Earth's atmosphere. Hansen was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1996 and he received a US$250,000 Heinz Environment Award
for his research on global warming in 2001. He was listed as one of Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the (2006) list and, in 2007, he shared the US$1 million Dan David Prize. On April 5, 2008, Dr. Hansen received the PNC Bank Common Wealth Award of Distinguished Service for his outstanding achievements in science.
Hansen posited in a 2007 paper that 350 ppm (parts per million) of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is a safe upper limit to avoid a climate tipping point. The current record level is 389 ppm of CO, an almost 40-percent increase from the pre-industrial revolution level of 278 ppm. In 1988 the Earth's atmosphere surpassed the 350 ppm mark, while global CO emissions per capita rose.
Hansens strong public opposition to the exploitation of oil sands and the pipeline project created some controversy in the media. "Storms of My Grandchildren" is Hansen's first book about the climate change. In 2013, Hansen was co-author of an open letter saying "continued opposition to nuclear power threatens humanity's ability to avoid dangerous climate change." 

</doc>
<doc id="147783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147783" title="Brighton, Indiana">
Brighton, Indiana

Brighton is a town of Greenfield Township, in LaGrange County, in the state of Indiana, in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="147794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147794" title="Tarzan (1999 movie)">
Tarzan (1999 movie)

Tarzan is a 1999 animated movie produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation. produced by Walt Disney Pictures It is based on the story "Tarzan of the Apes" by Edgar Rice Burroughs. It was released by Walt Disney Pictures on June 18, 1999. It was the first Disney animated feature to start at #1 in the box office since "Pocahontas" and the first to contain a production budget of $100 million dollars since "The Hunchback of Notre Dame".
A British couple and their baby son escape from a ship which has caught fire in a storm. They become stranded off the African coast near uncharted jungles. The couple builds a treehouse to live in. They are later attacked and killed by a vicious leopard called Sabor. Meanwhile, a family of gorillas are travelling to their feeding grounds. One of them is Kala, whose own child was killed by the leopard. She hears the cries of the orphaned baby. She follows the sound across the jungle to the treehouse. She finds the child there. Sabor attacks her, but Kala and the baby escape without being hurt. They return to the gorilla family. Kala decides to raise the child as her own. She names him Tarzan. That makes her mate Kerchak angry. He tells her the baby will never replace the child they lost.
As a child, Tarzan makes friends with several animals and other gorillas in the family. They include the female ape Terk and the male elephant Tantor. Tarzan has trouble keeping up. One day, Terk and her friends dare Tarzan to get a hair from an elephant's tail. The dare goes wrong when the elephants stampede into the gorilla territory and almost kill a baby gorilla. However, Tarzan is able to get the hair. After Kerchak tells Kala that Tarzan will never be one of the family, Tarzan runs off into the jungle. Kala consoles him. He keeps trying. He learns how to do things from the animals of the jungle. He becomes a muscular apelike man. One day, Sabor attacks the gorillas and Tarzan kills her. This makes Kerchak respect him. 
A gunshot is heard. While the others go into the jungle, Tarzan decides to investigate. He sees a team of human explorers. The group includes Professor Porter, his daughter Jane and their hunter guide Clayton. They are in Africa looking for gorillas. Jane gets separated from the group. She is attacked by a troop of baboons. Tarzan saves her from them. He discovers that Jane and he are the same-humans. They go back to Jane's camp. Terk, Tantor and some gorillas from the troop are looking for Tarzan. They find the human campsite. They use the various items in the camp as instruments, and slowly destroy it. Tarzan and Jane arrive at the camp. When Clayton and Professor Porter get there, Tarzan goes with the gorillas into the jungle. Kerchak warns the other gorillas to stay away from the humans, but Tarzan says that the humans are not dangerous. He secretly continues his visits to the explorers. He learns about the human world. He and Jane fall in love.
When the explorer's boat arrives to take them back to England, Tarzan is sad to see Jane leaving. Clayton tricks Tarzan into believing that Jane will remain in Africa forever if he shows her the gorillas. Tarzan persuades Tantor and Terk to lead Kerchak away from the explorers. The plan seemingly works and Tarzan leads the explorers to the gorilla nesting grounds. The explorers are happy to mingle with the apes, but then Kerchak arrives and attacks the humans. Tarzan restrains him to save the explorers and leaves the troop, having alienated himself. When Kala finds him, staring off into the distance, she takes him to the treehouse where she found him as a baby. Tarzan then decides to go to England with the explorers.
The next day, as the group board the ship, a mutiny occurs and Tarzan and his friends are captured and detained in the brig, but not before Clayton reveals that he came to Africa to capture the gorillas and sell them to a zoo. He and his goons then enter the jungle and start capturing the gorillas. Fortunately, Tarzan and his friends escape with the aid of several animals from the jungle. Together, they free the gorillas and retaliate against the poachers. Clayton then shoots Tarzan, but only grazes his arm. When Kerchak comes to the ape man's aid, Clayton shoots him, but fatally injures him. He then chases Tarzan into the trees where a fight ensues. Tarzan briefly holds Clayton at gunpoint, before destroying the hunter's rifle. Clayton then attacks the ape man with a machete and starts wildly hacking vines, not knowing that one of them is round his neck like a noose. Despite Tarzan begging him to stop, he cuts the vines and the hunter is quickly hung to death.
Tarzan then approaches Kerchak, who is close to death. Kerchak then asks Tarzan to forgive him for not realising he has always been a member of the gorilla troop and passes his leadership on to Tarzan, before succumbing to his injuries. The ape man then becomes the new leader of the gorillas. The next day, Jane and her father prepare to leave. Jane then realises she loves Tarzan and she and her father then decide to remain in Africa. Tarzan and Jane then embark on their new life together.
Additional voices include Joseph Ashton, Jack Angel, Robert Bergen, Roger Bumpass, Jim Cummings, Debi Derryberry, Patti Deutsch, Blake Ewing, Jason Marsden, Phil Proctor, and Erik von Detten.
A spin-off television animated series named "The Legend of Tarzan" ran from 2001 to 2003. The series picks up where the movie left off. Tarzan is adjusting to his new role as leader of the apes following Kerchak's death. 
Direct-to-video sequels:
"Tarzan" won the following awards:
"Tarzan" was also nominated for 11 Annie Awards, winning one.

</doc>
<doc id="147798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147798" title="M3 motorway">
M3 motorway

The M3 is a motorway between Sunbury-on-Thames and Southampton in England.

</doc>
<doc id="147801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147801" title="M2 motorway">
M2 motorway

The M2 motorway is a motorway between Strood and Faversham in England.

</doc>
<doc id="147802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147802" title="M4 motorway">
M4 motorway

M4 motorway is a motorway between Chiswick and Pont Abraham services in United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="147804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147804" title="Sunbury-on-Thames">
Sunbury-on-Thames

Sunbury-on-Thames is a town in Surrey, England, UK. It is not far from the border with Greater London. It is where the M3 motorway starts.

</doc>
<doc id="147805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147805" title="Category:Avril Lavigne albums">
Category:Avril Lavigne albums

Albums by Avril Lavigne 

</doc>
<doc id="147807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147807" title="Sarah Jane Smith (Doctor Who)">
Sarah Jane Smith (Doctor Who)

Sarah Jane Smith is a fictional character in the British television series "Doctor Who" and its related spin-offs. She is played by Elisabeth Sladen. Sarah Jane was a companion of the Third and Fourth Doctor. 
She is an investigative journalist. Sarah Jane Smith is one of the companions who travelled the longest with the Doctor; Sarah Jane is also one of the most popular and well known companions. 
Sarah Jane appeared in two spin-offs: "K-9 and Company", and the as the main character of the ongoing series "The Sarah Jane Adventures". Sarah Jane also appeared in the new "Doctor Who" series with the Tenth Doctor ("School Reunion", "The Stolen Earth", "Journey's End").
She first appeared in 1973 in "The Time Warrior", and then travelled with the Third Doctor. After the Doctor regenerated, she travelled with the Fourth Doctor. At the end of "The Hand of Fear", the Doctor had to go back to Gallifrey, where Sarah Jane was not allowed to go. Sarah Jane left the TARDIS and the Doctor, and returned to Earth.
Sarah Jane was a regular companion of the Third and Fourth Doctor, on the programme from 1973 to 1976 (seasons 11 – 14). She returns in the Fifth Doctor story "The Five Doctors" (1983), the 30th anniversary story "Dimensions In Time" (1993), and most recently in the episodes "School Reunion" (2006), and "The Stolen Earth"/"Journey's End" (2008), alongside the Tenth Doctor, and other companions of his era. The Tenth Doctor also featured in her own TV series "The Sarah Jane Adventures".

</doc>
<doc id="147808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147808" title="Olive-backed Forest Robin">
Olive-backed Forest Robin

Olive-backed Forest Robin ("Stiphrornis pyrrholaeumus") (Turdinae) is a bird discovered recently in Gabon. Hall et Moreau recognized as monotypic species merged in Forest Robin, type species "S.erythrothorax", and the recent studies confirm this arrangement, i.e. the genetic distance between the two taxa does not deserve species status.

</doc>
<doc id="147811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147811" title="Conspiracy theory">
Conspiracy theory

A conspiracy theory is a story that says that a group of people ("conspirators") have agreed ("conspired") to do illegal or evil things and hide them from the public. Conspiracy theories usually have little or no evidence. Many conspiracy theories say that certain historical events were actually caused by such conspirators.
Some conspiracy theories are about the: Apollo moon landing, the 9/11/01 terrorist attacks, the assassination of JFK and the death of Diana, Princess of Wales. Other examples not relating to specific events are the Illuminati, Freemasonry-related conspiracy theories, and chemtrails.

</doc>
<doc id="147812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147812" title="Category:Languages by continent">
Category:Languages by continent


</doc>
<doc id="147813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147813" title="Category:Languages of the Americas">
Category:Languages of the Americas


</doc>
<doc id="147814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147814" title="Category:Languages of Europe">
Category:Languages of Europe


</doc>
<doc id="147815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147815" title="Category:Languages of Asia">
Category:Languages of Asia


</doc>
<doc id="147816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147816" title="WWE Backlash">
WWE Backlash

Backlash was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment, which started in 1999 and was held in April (but in 2005, it was held in May). From 2004 to 2006, only WWE Raw superstars appeared at Backlash.
The 2007 event was the first WWE PPV event since Judgment Day 2003 (other than Wrestlemania, Summerslam, Royal Rumble, and Survivor Series) to feature all three brands (Raw, SmackDown! and ECW) after WWE stopped with brand-only events.
The last Backlash PPV was in 2009. It was replaced by Extreme Rules in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="147817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147817" title="Judgment Day (2003)">
Judgment Day (2003)

Judgment Day (2003) took place on May 18 2003 at the Charlotte Coliseum in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was the last pay-per-view starring both brands before WWE started having brand only PPVs. 

</doc>
<doc id="147818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147818" title="Prichard, Alabama">
Prichard, Alabama

Prichard is a city in Mobile County, Alabama, in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="147819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147819" title="Prattville, Alabama">
Prattville, Alabama

Prattville is a city in Autauga and Elmore counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is the county seat of Autauga County. As of the 2010 Census, the population of the city is 33,960. The city is northwest of Montgomery.
On February 17, 2008, Prattville was hit by an estimated EF3 tornado which destroyed more than 45 homes and businesses and damaged over 800.

</doc>
<doc id="147820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147820" title="Pleasant Grove, Alabama">
Pleasant Grove, Alabama

Pleasant Grove is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 9,983.

</doc>
<doc id="147821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147821" title="Pinson, Alabama">
Pinson, Alabama

Pinson is a city and a northeast suburb of Birmingham in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 5,033.

</doc>
<doc id="147822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147822" title="Pike Road, Alabama">
Pike Road, Alabama

Pike Road is a city in Montgomery County, Alabama, in the United States. As of 2007, the population of the city is 4,570.

</doc>
<doc id="147823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147823" title="Piedmont, Alabama">
Piedmont, Alabama

Piedmont is a city in Calhoun and Cherokee counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. The population was 5,120 at the 2000 census. It is included in the Anniston-Oxford, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="147824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147824" title="Pell City, Alabama">
Pell City, Alabama

Pell City is a city in St. Clair County, Alabama, United States. The city is the county seat of St. Clair County along with Ashville. At the 2010 census the population was 12,695.

</doc>
<doc id="147825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147825" title="Pelham, Alabama">
Pelham, Alabama

Pelham is a city and suburb of Birmingham in Shelby County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 14,369, but has grown to 20,120 according to the latest Census estimate in 2006. It was named for famed American Civil War officer John Pelham.

</doc>
<doc id="147826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147826" title="Phenix City, Alabama">
Phenix City, Alabama

Phenix City is a city in Lee County and Russell County in the U.S. state of Alabama.

</doc>
<doc id="147827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147827" title="British Rail Class 139">
British Rail Class 139

Class 139 is the TOPS classification for PPM60 model lightweight railcar units built by Parry People Movers for use on the national rail network in Great Britain. The class were originally built in 2008 for operation on the Stourbridge Town Branch Line.

</doc>
<doc id="147828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147828" title="Category:British Rail diesel multiple units">
Category:British Rail diesel multiple units

This category contains articles about diesel multiple units built for British Rail and its predecessors, and the post-privatisation companies.

</doc>
<doc id="147830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147830" title="Enon">
Enon

Enon is an American indie rock band. They are named after Enon, a village in Ohio. Enon has three members, one man who sings and plays electric guitar and a woman who plays bass guitar and keyboard. The third member plays drums. The woman was born in Japan and lives now in America. The guitarist played before in the band Brainiac.

</doc>
<doc id="147831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147831" title="Enon, Ohio">
Enon, Ohio

Enon is a village in Clark County, Ohio, United States. The population was 2,638 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="147833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147833" title="Port Vale F.C.">
Port Vale F.C.

Port Vale Football Club are an English football club currently playing in Football League Two. They are based in Burslem, Staffordshire — one of six towns that make up the city of Stoke-on-Trent. The club's rivals in the city are Stoke City, games between the two clubs are known as the "Potteries derby". Games against Crewe Alexandra are also called a derby, although "Alex" are in south Cheshire.
Port Vale are not named after a place, which is unusual for an English league clubs. The two symbols on the clubs badge are a bottle kiln and the Stafford knot.
The Rec was Port Vale's home from 1913 to 1950. The Old Recreation Ground was in Hanley and stood on what is now the car park for the Potteries Shopping Centre. 
Vale Park has been Port Vale's home ground since 1950. Vale Park has a capacity of around 22,000.
Vale Park is not the oldest ground in the world, it has had several upgrades in its history. The original ground consisted of two stands (The Railway side and the Lorne Street main stand) with banks of terracing at the Bycars and Hamil ends of the ground. Stands were added behind each set of goals during the 1980s and 1990s as the ground began to be made more modern. The paddock at the front of the Railway Stand was also made into an all-seated area, with just the Lorne Street side now being left as a standing area. Vale fans stood for the last time on Lorne Street at the end of the 1997-98 season, with the stand being demolished before work began on a new £3,000,000 structure. Work has yet to been finished on this, due to low funds and a change in ownership of the club. However, once new owners V2001 had taken care of the financing, work was finally begun on finishing the second half of the stand. It is due to be completed sometime in 2008.
Among the club's famous fan base is singer Robbie Williams, who was raised in Stoke-on-Trent. He is now a major shareholder, having, in February 2006, bought £240,000 worth of the £250,000 worth of available shares in the club. Castle Comfort Stairlifts, the club's sponsors, at the same time bought the remainder for £10,000.
For the computer game FIFA 2000, he provided an original theme song with "It's Only Us", on the condition that Port Vale were included in the game, which they were, and are in the Rest of World section. This song was also featured on the only FIFA Soundtrack CD release by EMI.
In 2005 Williams founded Los Angeles Vale F.C., a Super Metro League team in the United States, named for Port Vale and based at his L.A. home.
Football League Division Three North: 2
Football League Division Four: 1
Staffordshire Senior Cup: 1
Anglo-Italian Cup
Debenhams Cup
Football League Trophy: 2
Before the War: 
After the War:
FA Cup
League Cup

</doc>
<doc id="147838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147838" title="NG">
NG

NG, Ng, or ng may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="147844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147844" title="Mound, Minnesota">
Mound, Minnesota

Mound is a city in Hennepin County, Minnesota, United States. There were about 9,435 people living in Mound as of the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="147849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147849" title="John Holmes">
John Holmes

John Curtis Holmes (August 8, 1944 – March 13, 1988) better known as John C. Holmes or Johnny Wadd was an American pornographic actor known mainly for his large penis. Holmes made about 2,500 pornographic films, most with him having sexual intercourse with women but at least one with him having sex with a man.
Holmes' penis was said to be between 12.5 to 16 inches (32–41 cm) when at its largest. Fellow pornographic actor Ron Jeremy has said Holmes' penis was 11½ inches, but Holmes claimed it was 14 inches.
John Holmes died of an AIDS-related illness in 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="147850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147850" title="Bird-of-paradise">
Bird-of-paradise

The birds of paradise are songbirds of the family Paradisaeidae. They live in eastern Indonesia, Maluku, Papua New Guinea, Torres Strait Islands, and eastern Australia. Best known are the members of the genus "Paradisaea", including the type species, the greater bird-of-paradise, "Paradisaea apoda".
They live in tropical forests like rainforests, swamps and moss forest and build their nests from soft materials, such as leaves, ferns, and vine tendrils, typically placed in a tree fork.
They are best known for the remarkable plumage and behaviour of the males. They are an extreme example of how sexual selection works. Females choose males who they instinctively see are fine specimens of their species. The colours of the plumage, the construction of the nest, the song and the mating dance all play a part. In some species the pairing is monogamous, and in others the males are polygamous. If they are monogamous, the males look much like the females. If they are polygamous, the males are very much flashier than the females. In both cases, it is the female who makes the choice of partner.
Hunting for plumes and habitat destruction have reduced some species to endangered status. Habitat destruction due to deforestation is now the main threat.
Birds of paradise range in size from the King Bird of Paradise at 3 grams (1.8 oz) and 15 cm (6 in) to the Black Sicklebill at 110 cm (43 in) and the Curl-crested Manucode at 430 grams (15.2 oz).
Birds of paradise have bodies that look like a crow. They have stout or long bills and strong feet, with around two-thirds of the species being strongly sexually dimorphic.
In most species, the diet is mostly fruit, but riflebirds and sicklebills also prefer insects and other arthropods.
Greater "melampitta"
Formerly placed here

</doc>
<doc id="147851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147851" title="Category:Paradisaeidae">
Category:Paradisaeidae

Paradisaeidae is a family of the Passeri suborder.

</doc>
<doc id="147853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147853" title="Songbird">
Songbird

Songbirds are the main group of birds in the order Passeriformes. They are the suborder Passeri, sometimes called 'oscines' (Latin for songbird). They are a genuine clade.
There are about 4000 species of songbird. Their "syrinx" (vocal organ) is able to produce varied and beautiful singing. They are a "very" successful group of birds, in fact they are the dominant birds on Earth today.
It seems songbirds evolved 50 million years ago in the part of Gondwana which later became Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea and Antarctica. They then spread around the world.
Their song mainly territorial: it communicates the identity and whereabouts of an individual to other birds. It also signals sexual intentions. Female preference in some populations is be based on the extent of a male's song repertoire. The larger a male's repertoire, the more females a male individual attracts. 
Bird calls are also used for alarms and contact. They are especially important in birds that feed or migrate in flocks. Although almost all birds give calls of some sort, well-developed songs are only given by a few lines outside the songbirds.
This is now known to be a paraphyletic group and so it is not used in modern systematics.
This is accepted as a clade.

</doc>
<doc id="147854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147854" title="Category:Passeri">
Category:Passeri

Passeri is a Suborder of Passeriformes, also called "songbirds".

</doc>
<doc id="147855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147855" title="Category:Passeriformes">
Category:Passeriformes


</doc>
<doc id="147857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147857" title="Passerine">
Passerine

A passerine is a bird of the order Passeriformes, which includes more than half of all bird species. They are songbirds which can perch. Most of them are small in size, and most can sing very well.
The passerines have a number of adaptations which, taken together, have made them highly successful, with many species round the world.
Evidence on their evolution comes from comparative anatomy, the fossil record and molecular biology. It is thought that the first passerines evolved in the southern continent of Gondwana in the Palaeogene, maybe around the Upper Palaeocene some 60–55 mya.
The early fossil record is poor because the first Passeriformes were on the small side, and their delicate bones did not preserve well. Two specimens from Queensland, Australia are fossil bone fragments clearly recognizable as passeriform. They are two species of about 10 and 20 cm in overall length. This proves that some 55 mya, barely into the early Eocene, early perching birds were recognizably distinct. It also suggests that the origin of this great order of birds was in the southern continent.
There are three sub-orders: "Acanthisitti", "Tyranni" and "Passeri". There are only two bird species in the sub-order Acanthisitti. They are known as New Zealand wrens. The sub-order Tyranni are also known as the suboscines. Many of these birds are found in tropical areas. The sub-order Passeri has the most bird species. They are also known as the oscines. They have the best songs of all birds.
Suboscines
Songbirds or oscines

</doc>
<doc id="147859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147859" title="Superb lyrebird">
Superb lyrebird

The superb lyrebird ("Menura novaehollandiae") is a pheasant-sized songbird.
It is an Australian endemic species, about 100cm long. It has brown upper body plumage, grayish-brown below, rounded wings and strong legs. It is the longest and third heaviest of all songbirds. 
They are capable of mimicking a wide variety of sounds, including other bird's songs and man-made sounds like car alarms and chainsaws. 

</doc>
<doc id="147861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147861" title="Lyrebird">
Lyrebird

A lyrebird is a ground-dwelling Australian bird. There are two species in the genus Menura. The live in forests, especially rainforests, of eastern Australia, and they were introduced to Tasmania in the 19th century. The are found in two National Forest areas of Victoria, New South Wales and southeast Queensland. 
They are most notable for their superb ability to mimic natural and artificial sounds from their environment. Since they live on the ground in fairly dense undergrowth, sound is used by the males to attract attention. When a female arrives, the visual display comes into action. It is a typical "female choice" mating system, where males defend a mating territory, and sing and display to get a mate.
The lyrebird's mimicked calls are learned from the local environment, including other birds. It takes young birds about a year to perfect their mimicked repertoire. The female lyrebirds of both species are also mimics, and will sing on occasion but the females do so with less skill than the males. A lyrebird classic is their imitation of human sounds in the forest such as car alarms, camera shutters and forest logging with chain-saws.
The breeding cycle of the lyrebirds is long, and lyrebirds are long-lived birds. They can live up to thirty years. They also start breeding later in life than other passerine birds. Female Superb Lyrebirds start breeding at the age of five or six, and males at the age of six to eight. Males defend territories from other males.Tthese territories may contain the breeding places of up to eight females. In a male's territory, he makes or uses display platforms.
The females each build an untidy nest, usually low to the ground in a moist gully, where each lays a single egg. She is the sole parent who incubates the egg over 50 days until it hatches, and she is also the sole carer of the lyrebird chick.

</doc>
<doc id="147862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147862" title="Albert's Lyrebird">
Albert's Lyrebird

The Albert's Lyrebird ("Menura alberti") is a pheasant-sized songbird, about 90 cm long, with brown upper body feathers and rich chestnut below. It is very similar with the Superb Lyrebird in its habits. This bird also mimics other species sounds. It is sometimes called the "Prince Albert Lyrebird" or the "Northern Lyrebird". Named after Queen Victoria's husband, Prince Albert, they are smaller than the Superb Lyrebirds.
Albert's Lyrebirds are only found in a small area of rainforest in the Lamington National Park near the border of Queensland and New South Wales. There are about 3,500 birds known to exist. There are reports of the birds in the Blackall Range, but this has not been proved. Known groups of birds live on Tamborine Mountain, Scenic Rim and the Nightcap Range.
They eat small insects which they scratch up from the ground. They are a shy bird which will run or fly away if disturbed. During the breeding season in winter, from May to August, the male bird performs displays of song and dance to attract the females. The songs are copied from other birds and forest sounds. The songs can last up to four hours, with some individual songs lasting up to one hour. During his dance, the male bird raises his tail feathers up and over his body. The feathers form a lyre shape which is why they were given the name "lyrebird".
It is listed as a Vulnerable species because it lives in such a limited area, it can only eat a small range of food from that area, and it is not breeding quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="147863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147863" title="Corvida">
Corvida

The "Corvida" were one of two "parvorders" that were inside the suborder Passeri. The term is now not used in taxonomy because it is paraphyletic.

</doc>
<doc id="147864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147864" title="Passerida">
Passerida

Passerida is one of two "parvorders" in the suborder Passeri. 

</doc>
<doc id="147866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147866" title="Piciformes">
Piciformes

Piciformes are order of birds contain about 67 living genera with a little over 400 species, of which the Picidae (woodpeckers and relatives) make up about half. Amost all live in woods (arboreal).
In general, the Piciformes are insectivorous, though the barbets and toucans mostly eat fruit and the honeyguides are unique among birds in digesting beeswax (though insects make up most of their diet). 
Nearly all Piciformes have parrot-like zygodactyl feet—two toes forward and two back, an arrangement that has obvious advantages for birds that spend much of their time on tree trunks. An exception are a few species of three-toed woodpeckers. The jacamars aside, Piciformes do not have down feathers at any age, only true feathers. They range in size from the rufous piculet at 8 centimetres in length, and weighing 7 grams, to the toco toucan, at 63 centimetres long, and weighing 680 grams. All nest in cavities (holes) and have altricial young, meaning they have to look after their chicks for quite a long time.
Order: PICIFORMES

</doc>
<doc id="147898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147898" title="La Silla Observatory">
La Silla Observatory

La Silla Observatory is an observatory in Chile with eighteen telescopes that study the stars. The observatory is one of the biggest in the Southern Hemisphere. La Silla is a 2,400 meter high mountain that is found in the far southern part of the Atacama Desert. It can be found about 160 kilometers north of La Serena, 27 kilometers south of the Las Campanas Observatory, and about 100 kilometers north of the Cerro Tololo Observatory.

</doc>
<doc id="147905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147905" title="Crimean Astrophysical Observatory">
Crimean Astrophysical Observatory

The Crimean Astrophysical Observatory (CrAO) is found in Ukraine and is an observatory. It studies the stars and has found a total of 12 minor planets to date:

</doc>
<doc id="147909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147909" title="Freema Agyeman">
Freema Agyeman

Freema Agyeman (born Frema Agyeman on 20 March 1979) is an English actress. She is of Ghanaian and Iranian descent. She is known by a lot of people for playing Martha Jones on the television series "Doctor Who" and also in its spin-off series "Torchwood".

</doc>
<doc id="147911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147911" title="Missy Elliott">
Missy Elliott

Melissa Arnette "Missy" Elliott (born July 1, 1971) is a five-time Grammy Award-winning American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. With record sales of over seven million in the United States, she is the only female rapper to have six albums certified platinum by the RIAA, including one double platinum ("Under Construction"). Elliot has released six studio albums. Her seventh album is called Block Party. She has Graves' disease.

</doc>
<doc id="147915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147915" title="Piombino">
Piombino

Piombino is a town and commune in the province of Livorno (Tuscany), Italy, on the border between the Ligurian Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea, in front of Elba Island and at the northern side of Maremma.
It has an ancient historical centre, derived from the time in which it was the Etruscans' port, near the area of Populonia. In the Middle Ages, it was an important port of Pisa's Republic. Still today Piombino is one of biggest port in Italy, and is one of the most used port for to go in the Elba Island, (with the port of Livorno). Piombino outside the down town has a very big industrial area.
Piombino has schools, churches, banks, parks and squares. In the locality of Punta Falcone there is an astronomical observatory, built in 1976.
On July 28 2000, the city of Piombino got the Gold Medal of Military Valor for the fight against nazism and fascism, before and during the World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="147916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147916" title="Caraş-Severin County">
Caraş-Severin County

Caraş-Severin (; Serbian: Караш Северин, "Karaš Severin", ; , Bulgarian: Караш-Северин, "Karash-Severin") is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in historical region Banat. The capital of Caraş-Severin County is Reşiţa.
In 2002, about 332,000 people lived in Caraş-Severin County.
Caraş-Severin County has an area of 8,514 km². It is the third biggest county in Romania, after Timiş and Suceava counties. The Danube enters Romania in Caraş-Severin County.
Caraş-Severin County has 2 municipalities, 6 towns, and 69 communes.

</doc>
<doc id="147917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147917" title="Gold Medal of Military Valor">
Gold Medal of Military Valor

The Gold Medal of Military Valor (Italian language: "Medaglia d'oro al Valore Militare") is an Italian medal established on 21 May 1793 by King Victor Amadeus III of Sardinia.
During World War I, the medal was awarded to military personnel for exceptional valor in the face of the enemy. After the World War II, the medal was gave to the cities that fought fascism and nazism during the war.

</doc>
<doc id="147919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147919" title="Silver Medal of Military Valor">
Silver Medal of Military Valor

The Silver Medal of Military Valor (Italian language: "Medaglia d'Argento al Valore Militare") is an Italian medal established in 1833 by King Charles Albert of Sardinia.
During World War I, the medal was awarded to military personnel for exceptional valor in combat. Like the Gold Medal and the Bronze Medal, the Silver Medal was given also to citizens who fought against nazism and fascism during World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="147920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147920" title="Bronze Medal of Military Valor">
Bronze Medal of Military Valor

The Bronze Medal of Military Valor () is an Italian medal awarded by the King of Italy. 
During World War I, the medal was awarded to military personnel for exceptional valor in combat. For each subsequent act of valor, the recipient was awarded a bar in the corresponding class. As the Gold medal and the Silver Medal, after the World War II, the Bronze Medal was gave to the cities that fought against the nazism and the fascism during the war.

</doc>
<doc id="147921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147921" title="Reşiţa">
Reşiţa

Reşiţa (German: "Reschitz", Hungarian: "Resicabánya", Krashovani: Решица or "Rešica", Czech: "Rešice") is a city in the western part of Romania. It is the capital of Caraş-Severin County, in the Banat region. About 84,000 people live in Reşiţa as of the year 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="147922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147922" title="Orbetello">
Orbetello

Orbetello is a town and "commune" in the province of Grosseto (Tuscany), Italy. It is about south of Grosseto, on a lagoon, which is an important Natural Reserve.
Orbetello was an ancient Etruscan village, which in 280 BC went under the control of the Romans, who had founded their colony of Cosa. 
In the Middle Ages it was controlled by the Aldobrandeschi family, who held it until the 14th century, when it was bought by the city of Orvieto. After some years, Orbetello was captured by the Sienese Republic. In the mid-16th century it was part of the Spanish puppet State of Presides, becoming its capital. Later it was under the Grand Duchy of Tuscany and, from the late 19th century, the new Kingdom of Italy.
In 1927-1933, Italo Balbo's "air cruises" started from Orbetello's lagoon.

</doc>
<doc id="147923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147923" title="Category:Stub categories">
Category:Stub categories


</doc>
<doc id="147931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147931" title="Pontedera">
Pontedera

Pontedera is a small Italian industrial town in Tuscany, Italy, in the province of Pisa. Pontedera is the headquarters of the Piaggio company,from the 1930s one of most important Italian manufacturers motor vehicles such as the Vespa and the Ape. Piaggio was a subsidiary of FIAT. Today the owner of Piaggio is Roberto Colaninno.
Pontedera is in the Arno valley at the confluence of the Era River and the Arno River.
The Town has a small lake in Pietroconti called Braccini lake.
Churches:
Palaces:

</doc>
<doc id="147932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147932" title="Casentino">
Casentino

The Casentino is the valley in which the first tract of the Arno River flows till Subbiano, in the Italian region Tuscany. It is one of the four valleys in which the Province of Arezzo is divided. The valley's biggest "comuni" are all in the Arno valley: among these the biggest are Bibbiena and Poppi, while Capolona, Castel Focognano, Castel San Niccolò, Pratovecchio, Stia, Subbiano are more or less smaller. The villages on the neighbouring hills and mountains are much smaller. These are Chitignano, Chiusi della Verna, Montemignaio, Ortignano-Raggiolo and Talla. The Casentino is mentioned in the song "Ich hab in Penna einen Liebsten wohnen", from the "Italieniches Liederbuch" by Hugo Wolf.

</doc>
<doc id="147933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147933" title="Colle di Val d'Elsa">
Colle di Val d'Elsa

Colle di Val d'Elsa or Colle Val d'Elsa is a town and "comune" in Tuscany, Italy, in the province of Siena. It has a population of c. 20,000 inhabitants (2005). Its name in Italian means "Hill of Elsa Valley", where "Elsa" is the name of the river which crosses it. Today, Colle di Val d'Elsa is internationally renowned for the production of crystal glassware and art, largely produced in the industrial lower town.
The area was settled by man from at least the 4th millennium BC. In 1269 it was the seat of a famous battle during the wars of Guelphs and Ghibellines and in 1479 it was attacked by Neapolitan soldiers. From the 14th century it was under the control of the city of Florence and the Grand Duchy of Tuscany until the unification of Italy in 1860. In the 20th century it became an important industrial town. During World War II it was bombed by Allied aircraft. The oldest part of the town is the "colle alta", the higher part, with a well preserved medieval center. The city is also famous as the birthplace of sculptor and architect Arnolfo di Cambio.

</doc>
<doc id="147935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147935" title="British Rail Class 140">
British Rail Class 140

The British Rail Class 140 was the prototype of the Pacer diesel multiple unit. Much of the bodywork was constructed using Leyland National bus components, with the exception of the cabs, in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="147937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147937" title="British Rail Class 141">
British Rail Class 141

The British Rail Class 141 was the first production model of the Pacer diesel multiple units.
They were created because then British Rail had a large shortage of trains so rather than spending lots of money on expensive proper trains, they invented the Pacer. British Leyland at the time had a surplus in the production of bus bodies so the idea was to weld the bus body from an old bus on to a freight waggon chassis. The result of this was that pacers have notoriously poor suspension and are noisier around corners due to flanging (the squeaky noise that you'll sometimes hear when travelling by train). This makes them non-ideal passenger trains so they are now being replaced (or have been replaced in the case of the class 141) by new trains. 

</doc>
<doc id="147938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147938" title="Rosignano Marittimo">
Rosignano Marittimo

Rosignano Marittimo is a "comune" (municipality) in the Province of Livorno in the Italian region Tuscany. It is about 80 km southwest of Florence and about 20 km southeast of Livorno. As of 31 December 2004, it had 31,516 people. It has an area of 120.3 km².
The "comune" of Rosignano Marittimo contains the "frazioni" of: Castiglioncello, Rosignano Solvay, Vada, Castelnuovo della Misericordia, Gabbro, and Nibbiaia.
Rosignano Marittimo borders the following "comuni": Castellina Marittima, Cecina, Collesalvetti, Livorno, Orciano Pisano, Santa Luce.

</doc>
<doc id="147942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147942" title="James Henry Hammond">
James Henry Hammond

James Henry Hammond (November 15, 1807 – November 13, 1864) was from South Carolina. He served as a United States Representative from 1835 to 1836, Governor of South Carolina from 1842 to 1844, and United States Senator from 1857 to 1860. He had a son. He was also a slave owner; his plantation is in Redcliffe Park in South Carolina. The stables at Redcliffe Park were either built by him or his son.

</doc>
<doc id="147943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147943" title="Santa Croce sull'Arno">
Santa Croce sull'Arno

Santa Croce sull'Arno is an Italian town in the province of Pisa, Tuscany. About 13,400 people lived there as of 2005.
The city is famous for the tanning industries. In 16.92 square kilometres there are about 400 factories and laboratories.

</doc>
<doc id="147946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147946" title="British Rail Class 142">
British Rail Class 142

The British Rail Class 142 is a class of "Pacer" diesel multiple units used in the United Kingdom. 96 units were built by BREL in Derby between 1985 and 1987. They were a development of the earlier Class 141 which were introduced in 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="147947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147947" title="Functional illiteracy">
Functional illiteracy

Functional illiteracy means that a person is not able to read, write, and do math well in regular life. Someone who is fully illiterate can not read, write, or do math at all. Such people have perhaps never learnt how to read or write; perhaps they did not need to. A person who is functionally illiterate is different - at some point in their lives, these people were taught reading and writing skills. For different reasons, adults who are functionally illiterate try to avoid writing and reading as much as possible. That way, a person who is functionally illiterate may be able to write their name, but it is very difficult for them to write more than a few sentences.
These people have trouble functioning in modern society: when they are confronted with printed materials they cannot perform simple tasks such as filling out a form, understanding a contract, following written instructions, reading a newspaper article, traffic signs, consulting a dictionary, or understanding a bus schedule.
Because of functional illiteracy, these people also have a lot of trouble using modern communication technologies, such as a personal computer or a mobile phone.
The people who are functionally illiterate often have other problems as well: Other people may bully them, they may have higher health risks, and stress. Because they cannot get good jobs, they often earn little money.
Crime-researchers and sociologists have talked about the link between functional illiteracy and crime.
"Business" magazine estimates that 15 million functionally illiterate adults had a job in the United States at the start of the 21st century. The American Council of Life Insurers reported that 75% of the Fortune 500 companies provide some level of training to help their workers overcome this situation. All over the U.S 30 million - 14% of adults - are unable to perform simple and everyday literacy activities. 
The National Center for Education Statistics has more detail.
This report sees three parameters: prose, document, and quantitative literacy. There are four levels for each parameter: below basic, basic, intermediate, and proficient. For prose literacy, for example, a below basic level of literacy means that a person can look at a short piece of text to get a small piece of uncomplicated information. Similarly, a person who is "below basic" in quantitative literacy might be able to add two numbers.
In the US, 14% of adults are at the "below basic" level for prose literacy; 12% are at the "below basic" level for document literacy; and 22% are at that level for quantitative literacy. Only 13% of the population is proficient in these three areas. In the terms of the study, "proficient" means these people are able to compare viewpoints in two editorials. They can interpret a table about blood pressure, age, and physical activity. They can also compute and compare the cost per ounce of food items.
In the UK, according to the "Daily Telegraph" (14 June 2006) "one in six British adults lacks the literacy skills of an 11-year-old". The UK government's Department for Education reported in 2006 that 47 percent of school children left school at age 16 without having achieved a basic level in functional maths, and 42 percent fail to achieve a basic level of functional English. Every year 100,000 pupils leave school functionally illiterate in the UK.
A Literacy at Work study, published by the Northeast Institute in 2001, found that business losses attributed to basic skill deficiencies run into billions of dollars a year due to low productivity, errors, and accidents attributed to functional illiteracy.
Sociological research has demonstrated that countries with lower levels of functional illiteracy among their adult populations tend to be those with the highest levels of scientific literacy among the lower stratum of young people nearing the end of their formal academic studies. This correspondence suggests that a contributing factor to a society's level of civic literacy is the capacity of schools to ensure students attain the functional literacy required to comprehend the basic texts and documents associated with competent citizenship.

</doc>
<doc id="147950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147950" title="British Rail Class 143">
British Rail Class 143

The British Rail Class 143 is a diesel multiple unit, part of the Pacer family of trains introduced between 1985 & 1986. They originally worked around North East England but were later transferred to Wales. The coaches are based on an Alexander bus body mounted on a chassis from a freight or Goods truck. Twenty-five units were built, numbered 143001-025 but later re-numbered 143601 - 143625. 

</doc>
<doc id="147951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147951" title="British Rail Class 144">
British Rail Class 144

The British Rail Class 144 "Pacer" diesel multiple units (DMUs) were built by BREL Derby from 1986-1987. A total of 23 units were built, replacing many of the earlier First-generation "Heritage" DMUs.

</doc>
<doc id="147954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147954" title="British Rail Class 150">
British Rail Class 150

The British Rail Class 150 "Sprinter" diesel multiple units (DMUs) were built by BREL from 1984-87. A total of 137 units were built in three main subclasses, replacing many of the earlier first-generation "Heritage" DMUs.

</doc>
<doc id="147958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147958" title="British Rail Class 151">
British Rail Class 151

The British Rail Class 151 was a prototype class of DMU built by Metro Cammell in the mid-1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="147959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147959" title="British Rail Class 153">
British Rail Class 153

The British Rail Class 153 "Sprinter" is a single-car diesel multiple unit train.
In the early 1990s, British Rail took the decision that running 2-car trains on rural routes was inefficient, and identified the need for single-carriage trains. Initially consideration was given to splitting the Met-Cam Class 156 units to form class 152 units, however due to various problems with the Class 155 units, the decision was taken to split these units instead.
Work was undertaken by Hunslett-Barclay in Kilmarnock between 1991 and 1992. The modifications included fitting a cramped cab to the B end of each carriage, making it extremely difficult to load a bicycle!

</doc>
<doc id="147960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147960" title="British Rail Class 155">
British Rail Class 155

The British Rail Class 155 "Super-Sprinter" is a diesel multiple unit. These DMUs were built by British Leyland at Workington (using Leyland National bus components) between 1987 and 1988 as part of British Rail's replacement of its ageing diesel fleet which were First-Generation. 

</doc>
<doc id="147961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147961" title="British Rail Class 156">
British Rail Class 156

The British Rail Class 156 "Super-Sprinter" is a diesel multiple unit (DMU). A hundred and fourteen of these units were built from 1987 to 1989 by Metro-Cammell (now owned by Alstom) at their Washwood Heath Works in Birmingham. They were built to replace elderly First Generation "Heritage" DMUs and locomotive-hauled passenger trains.

</doc>
<doc id="147962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147962" title="British Rail Class 157">
British Rail Class 157

Class 157 was the designation applied to a range of Diesel multiple unit trains of the Sprinter family planned for regional use, in particular for the Strathclyde Passenger Transport Executive. As well as the class number, British Rail reserved carriage numbers in the 526xx and 576xx series for these units.
As the Privatisation of British Rail began, this project became unviable as resources were concentrated on the privatisation process, leading to the famous 1064-day 'drought' of new train orders. By the time this period was over, plans had moved on and Stratchclyde ended up receiving a batch of Class 170 units.

</doc>
<doc id="147964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147964" title="British Rail Class 158">
British Rail Class 158

British Rail Class 158 "Express Sprinter" is a type of diesel multiple unit (DMU) train. They were built for British Rail between 1989 and 1992 by BREL at their Derby Works. They were built to replace old DMUs and locomotive-hauled passenger trains. Class 159 trains are almost the same as Class 158s. They work many non-electrified services such as Exeter St David's To London Waterloo.

</doc>
<doc id="147965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147965" title="British Rail Class 159">
British Rail Class 159

The British Rail Class 159, known as "South Western Turbo" by Network SouthEast (but in reality a member of the Sprinter family), is a diesel multiple unit, built from 1989-93 by BREL at Derby Works. 

</doc>
<doc id="147967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147967" title="British Rail Class 165">
British Rail Class 165

The British Rail Class 165 "Network Turbo" diesel multiple units (DMUs) were built by BREL at York Works from 1990–1992.

</doc>
<doc id="147969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147969" title="British Rail Class 166">
British Rail Class 166

The British Rail Class 166 "Network Express Turbo" diesel multiple units (also known as just "Thames Turbos" ) were built by ABB at York Works from 1992-93. These units are the express version of the Class 165 "Network Turbo" units. They have a top speed of 90mph (suitable for mainline use), are carpeted throughout and have air-conditioning (the 165s lack the latter two features and it should be noted the 166 is similar to the Class 158 in terms of what it offers). 

</doc>
<doc id="147971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147971" title="British Rail Class 168">
British Rail Class 168

The Class 168 "Clubman" is a diesel multiple-unit (DMU) train used by Chiltern Railways for InterCity services between London and the Midlands. They were built in several batches from 1997 onwards. The first batch of units was classified 168/0 under TOPS and bore a large resemblance, both visually and in terms of electrical design, to the Class 165 units previously built by BREL at York. This is because they were based on plans originally drawn up by Network SouthEast and thus can be considered to be Networker Turbos. Subsequent builds, classified 168/1 and 168/2, were given the newer style cab and a new design of wiring and thus are part of the Turbostar family of trains. 

</doc>
<doc id="147973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147973" title="British Rail Class 170">
British Rail Class 170

The Class 170 "Turbostar" is a diesel multiple unit (DMU) built by Bombardier Transportation (previously ADtranz) at their Derby Litchurch Lane Works, England. This has become the most popular type of DMU built since the privatisation of Britain's railways, with 122 units built. 

</doc>
<doc id="147974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147974" title="Category:Rail transport navigational boxes of the United Kingdom">
Category:Rail transport navigational boxes of the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="147975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147975" title="British Rail Class 171">
British Rail Class 171

The Class 171 "Turbostar" is a type of DMU operated by Southern. The Class 171 is identical to the Class 170, except for the replacement of the BSI coupler with a Dellner coupler. This provision was made in order to allow emergency joining with Class 377 DC third-rail electric units.

</doc>
<doc id="147976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147976" title="British Rail Class 172">
British Rail Class 172

The Class 172 is a diesel multiple unit (DMU) of the Turbostar family similar to the Class 168, Class 170 and Class 171.

</doc>
<doc id="147978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147978" title="British Rail Class 175">
British Rail Class 175

The Class 175 "Coradia" is a model of diesel multiple unit passenger train used in the United Kingdom. They were built from 1999–2001 by Alstom at Washwood Heath in Birmingham. The fleet is currently based at Chester Depot. The fleet is used in North Wales on services from Holyhead, South Wales, normally going south or up to the North Wales Coast. Many also operate round the Manchester area.

</doc>
<doc id="147980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147980" title="Category:London Overground">
Category:London Overground


</doc>
<doc id="147982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147982" title="British Rail Class 180">
British Rail Class 180

The Class 180 "Adelante" is a type of British diesel multiple unit built by Alstom between 2000 and 2001 at Washwood Heath in Birmingham. The units are express trains originally built for First North Western but then the contract was passed over to First Great Western (FGW) to supplement their High Speed Train fleet. However, due to reliability and operating problems the decision was made to withdraw most of the fleet from service. The majority of the units have already been returned to the Leasing Company with the remainder of the fleet to follow in due course. First Great Western announced in November 2010 that the Class 180's would be returning to their fleet in Spring 2012 for use on the Cotswold Line.

</doc>
<doc id="147983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147983" title="British Rail Class 185">
British Rail Class 185

The Class 185 (branded by its operators as the Pennine Class 185) is a diesel multiple-unit passenger train built by Siemens in Germany for the British train operating company First TransPennine Express.

</doc>
<doc id="147985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147985" title="British Rail Class 201">
British Rail Class 201

The British Rail Class 201 (or 6S) six-car diesel-electric multiple units (DEMUs) were built in 1957–1958 at Eastleigh and Ashford. They were built for use on the London-Hastings line. Several tunnels along the route had restricted clearance, meaning that these units were built with a narrow body profile.

</doc>
<doc id="147986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147986" title="British Rail Class 202">
British Rail Class 202

The British Rail Class 202 (or 6L) diesel-electric multiple units were built from 1957 to 1958 at Eastleigh and Ashford Works. These units were built to work the London Charing Cross to Hastings services. Several tunnels along the route had restricted clearance, meaning that these units were built with a narrow body profile.

</doc>
<doc id="147987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147987" title="British Rail Class 203">
British Rail Class 203

This was the final version of Hastings Restriction 0 diesel trains, classified 6B, later class 203. They were delivered in 1958 and consisted of units 1031–1037. They differed from class 202 by the substitution of a trailer buffet car for one of the three trailer second opens in all the earlier units. Their roofs were free of conduit like class 202's 1014–1019.

</doc>
<doc id="147988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147988" title="British Rail Class 204">
British Rail Class 204

The British Rail Class 204 designation has been used twice for two similar types of diesel-electric multiple units.

</doc>
<doc id="147989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147989" title="British Rail Class 205">
British Rail Class 205

The British Rail Class 205 (or 3H) diesel-electric multiple units were built by BR at Eastleigh from 1957–1962.

</doc>
<doc id="147990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147990" title="British Rail Class 206">
British Rail Class 206

The British Rail Class 206 or 3R was a type of Diesel electric multiple unit (DEMU) first created in 1964. They were not 'built' as such but rather re-formed from Class 201 and EPB vehicles for use on Reading-Redhill-Tonbridge (North Downs Line) services. Six three-car sets were created, numbered 1201–1206. They were known, colloquially, as 'Tadpole' units because of the contrast between the standard profile of the 416 'head' and the narrow body shape of the 206 'tail'.

</doc>
<doc id="147991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147991" title="British Rail Class 207">
British Rail Class 207

The British Rail Class 207 (or 3D) diesel-electric multiple units were built by BR at Eastleigh in 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="147994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147994" title="British Rail Class 210">
British Rail Class 210

The British Rail Class 210 was a type of Diesel-electric multiple unit built in the late 1970s. The class was intended to be a modern DEMU to replace the ageing types in use on the Southern Region of British Railways but the prototypes built did not manage to secure production for the class and they were withdrawn in the 1980s. 

</doc>
<doc id="147995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147995" title="Christopher Flavin">
Christopher Flavin

Christopher Flavin is the President of the Worldwatch Institute, an independent research organization focused on natural resource and environmental issues, based in Washington, DC. He is also a founding member of the Board of Directors of the Business Council for Sustainable Energy] and is a member of the National Academy of Sciences Board on Energy and Environmental Systems, the Climate Institute, and the Environmental and Energy Study Institute. His research and writing focus is international energy and climate policy.
Flavin has participated in several notable international conferences, including the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and the Climate Change Conference in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997. He has testified before national and state legislatures and meets frequently with government and international leaders.
Flavin is a native of Monterey, California and a cum laude graduate of Williams College, where he studied economics, biology, and environmental studies.

</doc>
<doc id="147996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147996" title="British Rail Class 220">
British Rail Class 220

The Class 220 "Voyager" is a class of diesel-electric high-speed multiple-unit trains built by Bombardier Transportation for the British train operating company Virgin Trains, but are now operated by CrossCountry. They are air-conditioned throughout, with powered doors and a top speed of . They were introduced to replace the thirty-year-old High Speed Train and Class 47 fleets. The trains were built between 2000 and 2001 and the first train entered service on 5 June 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="147998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147998" title="British Rail Class 221">
British Rail Class 221

The Class 221 "SuperVoyager" is a train currently used by Virgin Trains and CrossCountry in the United Kingdom. They were built by Bombardier Transportation between 2000 and 2002 for the British train operating companies Virgin CrossCountry and Virgin West Coast. The first Class 221 "SuperVoyager" entered traffic between Birmingham and Brighton on 12 April 2002. The Class 221 "SuperVoyagers" are similar to the Class 220 "Voyager" units, but they are built with a tilting mechanism offering up to six degrees of tilt to allow faster speeds on curved tracks. They have a maximum speed of .

</doc>
<doc id="147999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147999" title="Lester Brown">
Lester Brown

Lester R. Brown (born 1934 in New Jersey) is an environmental analyst who has authored and co-authored over fifty books. His books have been translated into more than forty languages. He is the founder of the Worldwatch Institute and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute.
The recipient of twenty-five honorary degrees and a MacArthur Fellowship, Brown has been described as "one of the world's most influential thinkers." 
Brown has authored or coauthored 50 books. One of the world's most widely published authors, his books have appeared in some 40 languages. Among his earlier books are "Man, Land and Food", "World Without Borders", and "Building a Sustainable Society". His 1995 book "Who Will Feed China?" challenged the official view of China’s food prospect, spawning hundreds of conferences and seminars. 
In May 2001, he founded the Earth Policy Institute to provide a vision and a road map for achieving sustainable development. In November 2001, he published "Eco-Economy: Building an Economy for the Earth", and his most recent book is "World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse" (2011). 
He is the recipient of many prizes and awards, including 25 honorary degrees, a MacArthur Fellowship, the 1987 United Nations' Environment Prize, the 1989 World Wide Fund for Nature Gold Medal, and the 1994 Blue Planet Prize for his "exceptional contributions to solving global environmental problems." More recently, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Italy, the Borgström Prize by the Royal Swedish Academy of Agriculture and Forestry, and appointed an honorary professor of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. In 1991, the American Humanist Association named Brown the Humanist of the Year.
Books online:

</doc>
<doc id="148000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148000" title="British Rail Class 222">
British Rail Class 222

The British Rail Class 222 is a diesel-electric multiple unit high-speed train capable of . Twenty-seven units have been built by Bombardier Transportation.

</doc>
<doc id="148002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148002" title="British Rail Classes 251 and 261">
British Rail Classes 251 and 261

The Blue Pullman was a class of luxury train used from 1960 to 1973 by British Railways in the United Kingdom. As opposed to the previous Pullman Car Company locomotive-hauled carriage trains, and the Brighton Belle electrical multiple units, the Blue Pullmans were the first diesel-electric multiple units designed for high-speed Pullman train services incorporating several novel features. Named after their custom blue livery, the trains were conceived under the railway 1955 Modernisation Plan, to create new luxury first-class diesel express trains, to compete with the motor car and the emerging domestic air travel market. Although not entirely successful in their own right, the Blue Pullmans demonstrated the possibility of high-speed fixed-formation multiple-unit Inter City train services and inspired the later development of the Inter City 125. After their withdrawal, none of the units survived into preservation.

</doc>
<doc id="148004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148004" title="British Rail Class 252">
British Rail Class 252

Class 252 was the classification allocated to the prototype High Speed Train unit, numbered 252001.

</doc>
<doc id="148005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148005" title="British Rail Classes 253, 254 and 255">
British Rail Classes 253, 254 and 255

Class 253, Class 254 and Class 255 are classifications allocated to InterCity 125 high speed trains in Great Britain. 

</doc>
<doc id="148006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148006" title="Hum Ek Hain">
Hum Ek Hain

Hum Ek Hain is a Pakistani Urdu movie directed by Syed Noor which was released across theaters in Pakistan in November 2004. It stars Shaan, Saima, Shamyl Khan, Haidar Sultan. The title was meant to be "786" but the Censor Board Members did not approve of "786" so it was changed to "Hum Ek Hain".

</doc>
<doc id="148007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148007" title="British Rail Class 313">
British Rail Class 313

Class 313 electric multiple units were built by BREL at York Works from 1976-77, these being the first second-generation EMUs to be constructed for British Rail. They were also the first dual-voltage units to be built, capable of drawing power via 25 kV AC overhead, or 750 V DC third-rail, and the first units in Britain to have fully automatic couplers which allowed both physical coupling and also the connection of control electric and air supplies to be carried out without the need to leave the cab. Their passenger seats were an improvement on former types.

</doc>
<doc id="148010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148010" title="Category:British Rail electric multiple units">
Category:British Rail electric multiple units

This category contains articles about electric multiple units built for British Rail and its predecessors, and the post-privatisation companies.

</doc>
<doc id="148011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148011" title="British Rail Class 300">
British Rail Class 300

Class 300 was allocated to a proposed fleet of parcels-carrying electric multiple units, which were to be converted from former Class 307 units.

</doc>
<doc id="148012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148012" title="Khamosh Pani">
Khamosh Pani

Khamosh Pani (, , ) is a 2003 French/German production about a widowed mother and her young son set in a late 1970s village in Punjab, Pakistan which is coming under radical influence. 
The movie was released in India too. It was shot in a village in Pakistan and won 7 awards, including Best Film, Best Actress and Best Direction at the 56th Locarno International Film Festival, Switzerland, August 18, 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="148015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148015" title="British Rail Class 302">
British Rail Class 302

The British Rail Class 302 (pre-TOPS AM2) was a type of electric multiple unit (EMU) introduced between 1958 - 1960 for outer suburban passenger services on the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway route. This class of multiple unit was constructed using the Mark 1 bodyshell and was slam door.

</doc>
<doc id="148018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148018" title="Gbangbatoke">
Gbangbatoke

Gbangbatoke is a small town in southern Sierra Leone. It is in the Moyamba District. The people of Gbangbatoke are mainly from the Mende ethnic group. The Mende language is the main language.
Two of Sierra Leone's important politicians, Sir Milton Margai and Sir Albert Margai were born in Gbangbatoke.

</doc>
<doc id="148019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148019" title="British Rail Class 303">
British Rail Class 303

The British Rail Class 303 is a type of electric multiple unit. They are also known as "Blue Train" units. They were introduced in 1960 for the electrification of the North Clyde and the Cathcart Circle lines in Strathclyde. At first they were classified as AM3 units before the introduction of the TOPS classification system. They were the dominant EMU on the Glasgow suburban railway network for over 25 years. The final units were withdrawn from service in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="148020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148020" title="British Rail Class 304">
British Rail Class 304

The British Rail Class 304 is a type of electric multiple unit. They were built for suburban use on the first phases of the West Coast Main Line electrification between Crewe and Manchester/Liverpool/Rugby. They were at first classed as AM4 units and later became Class 304 under the TOPS numbering system. They could be found in operation over most of the southern West Coast Main Line. The units conformed to the 1959-design for alternating current (AC) electrical multiple units, and were externally very similar to the Class 305, Class 308 and the 1,200 V direct current (DC) class Class 504 units. No units survived preservation, and all units were eventually scrapped.

</doc>
<doc id="148021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148021" title="British Rail Class 305">
British Rail Class 305

The British Rail Class 305 was an alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU). Under the pre-1973 British Rail numbering system, the class was known as AM5. When TOPS as introduced, the class became Class 305.

</doc>
<doc id="148022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148022" title="British Rail Class 306">
British Rail Class 306

The British Rail Class 306 was a type of electric multiple unit (EMU) introduced in 1949. It consisted of 92 three-car trains which were used on newly electrified suburban lines between Shenfield and London Liverpool Street.

</doc>
<doc id="148023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148023" title="British Rail Class 307">
British Rail Class 307

The British Rail Class 307 electric multiple units were built by BR at Eastleigh Works from 1954-1956. They were initially classified as AM7 before the introduction of TOPS.

</doc>
<doc id="148024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148024" title="British Rail Class 309">
British Rail Class 309

The British Rail Class 309 "Clacton Express" electric multiple units (EMUs) were built by British Rail (BR) York Works from 1962-1963. They were initially classified as Class AM9 before the introduction of TOPS. These units were the first express 25 kV alternating current (AC) units to be built by British Rail, and British Rail's first EMUs to be capable of 100 mph.

</doc>
<doc id="148025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148025" title="British Rail Class 308">
British Rail Class 308

The British Rail (BR) Class 308 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BR at York, in three batches, from 1961–62. They were initially classified as AM8 units before the introduction of TOPS.

</doc>
<doc id="148026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148026" title="British Rail Class 310">
British Rail Class 310

The British Rail (BR) Class 310 is a slam-door, alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) introduced in 1966 as part of the West Coast Main Line electrification project. They were initially classified as Class AM10 units before the introduction on the TOPS classification system. Constructed at BR's Derby Carriage and Wagon Works. They consisted of four carriages - a second class driving trailer, a second class trailer, a second class motor car (with guard's/luggage compartment above which the pantograph was mounted) and a composite (1st and 2nd class) driving trailer. The maximum speed was 75 miles per hour. A glass partition behind the driver's cab enabled passengers in the leading and rear coaches to have an excellent view of the line ahead or behind.

</doc>
<doc id="148027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148027" title="British Rail Class 311">
British Rail Class 311

The British Rail Class 311 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by Cravens at Sheffield in 1967. They were intended for use on the line from Glasgow Central to Gourock and Wemyss Bay, which was electrified in 1967.

</doc>
<doc id="148028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148028" title="British Rail Class 312">
British Rail Class 312

The British Rail Class 312 is a type of alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) built in 1966-1974 intended for use on outer-suburban passenger services. It was the last class of multiple unit to be constructed to the British Rail Mark 2 bodyshell, and also the last with slam doors. This latter feature contributed to their relatively early withdrawal (between 25–28 years old, compared to a life expectancy of 30 years). Ironically, the examples withdrawn by First Great Eastern and later 'one' Great Eastern between 2003 and 2004 were slightly newer than most of the carriages the operator is introducing during 2005 for use on its premier express service.

</doc>
<doc id="148030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148030" title="British Rail Class 314">
British Rail Class 314

British Rail Class 314 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL at York works from 1978 to 1979. They were the second variety of British Rail's then-standard 1972 design for suburban EMUs, which eventually encompassed 755 vehicles and five Classes (Class 313/314/315/507/508). Able to operate from 25 kV overhead line current collection only, the fleet works outer-suburban services on the Strathclyde Passenger Transport rail network in Central Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="148031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148031" title="British Rail Class 315">
British Rail Class 315

British Rail Class 315 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL at York works from 1980 to 1981. They were the fifth and final variety of British Rail's then-standard 1972 design for suburban EMUs, which eventually encompassed 755 vehicles and five Classes (Class 313/314/315/507/508). Like the Glasgow-based Class 314 units, they are only able to operate from 25 kV overhead line current collection. The fleet works inner-suburban services on the Great Eastern Main Line run by the train operating company TfL Rail out of London Liverpool Street. Class 315s also work services from Liverpool Street to Chingford, Enfield Town and Cheshunt operated by London Overground.

</doc>
<doc id="148034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148034" title="British Rail Classes 316 and 457">
British Rail Classes 316 and 457

Class 316 and Class 457 were two suggested TOPS classifications. They were given to a single electric multiple unit (EMU) at different stages of its use as a prototype for the Networker series.

</doc>
<doc id="148035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148035" title="British Rail Class 317">
British Rail Class 317

The British Rail Class 317 electric multiple units were built by BREL at York Works in two batches, from 1981-82 and 1985-87. They were the first of several classes of British Rail EMU to be based on the all-steel Mark 3 bodyshell, departing from the "PEP"-aluminium design which had spawned the earlier Class 313 to Class 315. The Mark 3 bodyshell was also the basis of Class 318, Class 455, and the diesel "sprinters" pioneered by the Class 150.

</doc>
<doc id="148036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148036" title="Nehebkau">
Nehebkau

In Egyptian mythology, Nehebkau (also spelled Nehebu-Kau, and Neheb Ka) guarded the entrance to Duat, the Egyptian underworld. He was made up of Ka and Ba, the two parts of the soul. He is pictured as a snake with two heads. Atum was said to have to keep his finger on Nehebkau to keep him from being out of control. Since he was a snake, he was believed to heal those bitten by snakes and/or scorpions.

</doc>
<doc id="148037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148037" title="British Rail Class 318">
British Rail Class 318

The British Rail Class 318 is an electric multiple unit (EMU) train, which operates exclusively in the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport network in West Central Scotland. The units were introduced fully on 29 September 1986 as part of the electrification of the Ayrshire Coast Line between Glasgow Central and Ayr/Ardrossan with alternating current (AC) overhead lines. Usage was extended to Largs in January 1987. They were also used on the Inverclyde Line in small numbers and on rare occasions the Cathcart Circle Lines (including to Neilston and Newton).

</doc>
<doc id="148038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148038" title="Ka">
Ka

Ka is one of the five parts of the Egyptian idea of the soul. The Ka was the life force and left the body during death. Ka was believed to be in food and drink and was placed with the dead for offerings. The Egyptians believed that at death the Ba and the Ka join together through Nehebkau before entering Duat.

</doc>
<doc id="148039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148039" title="British Rail Class 319">
British Rail Class 319

The British Rail Class 319 dual-voltage electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL York in two batches from 1987–88 and 1990. The trains were introduced for new north-south cross-London services from Bedford to Brighton, and since privatisation these services have been operated by Thameslink and First Capital Connect, the former franchise having been merged with the Great Northern section of the former WAGN franchise to form the latter train operating company at 0200 BST on 1 April 2006 as a result of re-franchising. Class 319 units have dual power pick-up, from either 25 kV alternating current (AC) overhead lines for services north of London, or 750 V direct current (DC) third rail to the south. However, some units were only used on outer suburban services in South London. The Class 325 postal units were based on the Class 319 units, with the same traction equipment and body design, but are fitted with cabs of the same design as the newer Class 365 and Class 465 "Networker" units.

</doc>
<doc id="148040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148040" title="British Rail Class 320">
British Rail Class 320

The British Rail Class 320 is an alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) train found on the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport (SPT) rail network in Central Scotland, and is used exclusively on the North Clyde Line between Helensburgh and Airdrie, North Lanarkshire via Glasgow Queen Street railway station.
What with the introduction of the class 380 dsiros for the Inverclyde line, the class 334s will be put to service on the Airdrie to Bathgate route, the class 320s will be split between the cathcart circle lines and the Argyll line, 14 of the 1990 built EMUs will be put to work on the Glasgow - Newton, Neilston and Cathcart Circle lines, while the remaining units shall work alongside the class 318s on the North Clyde/Argyll lines. This can not happen without, the class 320s bogies being upgraded, currently, they have a 75 mph top speed, in November 2010 the class will be driven under their own power to WABTEC Doncaster by GBRF drivers where they will be given a full refurbishment scheme which shall include new seats, toilets fitted, painting into the new scotrail saltire livery and their top speed raised to 90 mph.

</doc>
<doc id="148041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148041" title="Ba">
Ba

Ba is one of the five parts of the spirit in Egyptian mythology. Ba is considered to be the soul. Ba is believed to have a unique personality based on the person who has it. The Ba was pictured as a bird that flew from the body to join with the Ka at death. A Ba was said to return to the sarcophagus if it was properly stored. In some stories, Bas sometimes act as guardians in the underworld.

</doc>
<doc id="148042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148042" title="British Rail Class 321">
British Rail Class 321

The British Rail Class 321 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL York in three batches from 1986-1989. The design was very successful and led to the development of the similar Class 320 and Class 322 units for use by Strathclyde PTE and Stansted Express (now used by First ScotRail) respectively. The bodyshell design was also used for construction of the Class 456 direct current (DC) units. The Class 321s were nicknamed 'Dusty Bins', due to the class number sharing the same name as the game show 3-2-1. (This name has also been given to the diesel multiple unit (DMU) Class 153 no. 153321 for the same reason).
Class 321s were originally built for the Bedford services. However, in 1990, they started being used on Great Eastern Main Line services to Southend Victoria, Braintree and Clacton, to replace the class 302 and 305 EMUs, many of which were approaching 50 years old. Some 321s (many of the 3214s) were sent to work inter-regional services for Silverlink, and then briefly for London Midland, primarily on Euston to Northampton/Milton Keynes/Tring services.

</doc>
<doc id="148044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148044" title="High-speed rail">
High-speed rail

High-speed rail is a type of passenger rail transport that operates significantly faster than the normal speed of rail traffic. Specific definitions include 200 km/h (125 mph) and faster — depending on whether the track is upgraded or new — by the European Union, and above 90 mph (145 km/h) by the United States Federal Railroad Administration, but there is no single standard, and lower speeds can be required by local constraints.

</doc>
<doc id="148046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148046" title="InterCity 125">
InterCity 125

The InterCity 125 was the brand name of British Rail's High Speed Train (HST) fleet. The InterCity 125 train is made up of two locomotives, one at each end of a fixed formation of carriages, and is capable of 125 mph in regular service. British Rail initially used the fleet on the Great Western Main Line, on the East Coast Main Line, on the Cross Country Route and latterly on the Midland Main Line, serving destinations such as London, Bristol, Edinburgh, as far south as Penzance and as far north as Aberdeen and Inverness. The InterCity 125 took the world record for the fastest diesel-powered train, when it was recorded at an absolute maximum speed of during 1987. From 2017, some will be replaced by the British Rail Class 800.

</doc>
<doc id="148056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148056" title="Ancient Egyptian concept of the soul">
Ancient Egyptian concept of the soul

The ancient Egyptians believed the soul was divided into five parts Ren, Ba, Ka, Sheut, and Ib.
The Egyptians believed the heart held the emotions and thoughts. Believed to be weighed on the scales of Anubis by the feather of Maat. The Ib decided what happened to you after death. 
Believed to be the shadow of the person. The Sheut was the essence of the person and could not exist with them nor the person with the shadow.
Given at birth. A person was believed to live as long as their name lasted. Egyptians often went to great lengths to keep their names talked about and had them carved into monuments and surrounded by cartouche (magical rope). 
Ba is considered the spirit. Ba is believed to have a unique personality based on the person who has it. The Ba was shown as a bird that flew from the body to unite with the Ka at death.
One of the five parts of the Egyptian idea of the soul. The Ka was thought of as the life force and left the body during death. Ka was believed to be in food and drink and was placed with the dead for offerings. Egyptian Mythology believes that at death the Ba and the Ka unite through Nehebkau before entering Duat.

</doc>
<doc id="148058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148058" title="Purple Mountain Observatory">
Purple Mountain Observatory

Purple Mountain Observatory is an observatory that uses telescopes to look at the stars for new objects in space. It can be found on the Purple Mountain in Nanjing, China.
Many asteroids were found at the observatory. Asteroids found include the Trojan asteroids 2223 Sarpedon, 2260 Neoptolemus, 2363 Cebriones, 2456 Palamedes, and 3494 Purple Mountain.

</doc>
<doc id="148073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148073" title="Anti-nuclear movement in California">
Anti-nuclear movement in California

The 1970s proved to be a pivotal period for the anti-nuclear movement in California. There was confrontation between nuclear power advocates and environmentalists. In 1981, 1,900 activists were arrested during protests at Diablo Canyon Power Plant. In 1984, the Davis City Council declared the city to be a nuclear free zone. California has banned the approval of new nuclear reactors since the late 1970s because of concerns over waste disposal.
The start of the anti-nuclear movement in California was the controversy over Pacific Gas & Electric's attempt to build the nation's first nuclear power plant in Bodega Bay. This conflict began in 1958 and ended in 1964, with the forced abandonment of these plans. Subsequent plans to build a nuclear power plant in Malibu were also abandoned.
The anti-nuclear movement grew in California between 1964 and 1974. It was during this period that some scientists and engineers began supporting the positions of the activists. They were influenced by the non-material philosophy that had inspired activists and had impacted the public consciousness. While Californian voters failed to pass a 1972 proposal placing a 5-year moratorium on nuclear plant construction, anti-nuclear groups campaigned to stop construction of several proposed plants in the seventies, especially those located on the coast and near fault lines. These proposals included the Sundesert Nuclear Power Plant, which was never built.
Over a two-week period in 1981, 1,900 activists were arrested at Diablo Canyon Power Plant. It was the largest arrest in the history of the U.S. anti-nuclear movement.
In this period there were controversies within the Sierra Club about how to lead the anti-nuclear movement, and this led to a split over the Diablo Canyon plant which ended in success for the utilities. The split led to the formation of Friends of the Earth, led by David Brower.
In 1979, Abalone Alliance members held a 38-day sit-in in the Californian Governor Jerry Brown's office to protest continued operation of Rancho Seco Nuclear Generating Station, which was a duplicate of the Three Mile Island facility. In 1989, Sacremento voters voted to shut down the Rancho Seco power plant.
California has banned the approval of new nuclear reactors since the late 1970s because of concerns over waste disposal.
On November 14th 1984 the Davis, California City Council declared the city to be a nuclear free zone. Another well-known nuclear-free community is Berkeley, California, whose citizens passed the Nuclear Free Berkeley Act in 1986 which allows the city to levy fines for nuclear weapons-related activity and to boycott companies involved in the United States nuclear infrastructure.

</doc>
<doc id="148080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148080" title="British Rail Class 322">
British Rail Class 322

The British Rail Class 322 electric multiple units were built by BREL between 1988-90. Five 4-car units were built for the dedicated Stansted Express service from London Liverpool Street to Stansted Airport. The units are now operated by First ScotRail, between Edinburgh Waverley and North Berwick.

</doc>
<doc id="148081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148081" title="British Rail Class 323">
British Rail Class 323

The British Rail Class 323 electric multiple units were built by Hunslet TPL from 1992-93. Forty-three 3-car units were built for inner-suburban services around Birmingham and Manchester. These trains were the last vehicles to be built by the struggling manufacturer Hunslet before it collapsed.

</doc>
<doc id="148126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148126" title="Wrightwood, California">
Wrightwood, California

Wrightwood is a census-designated place in San Bernardino County, California. About 3,800 people lived in Wrightwood as of the year 2002. Wrightwood has an area of 5.7 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="148141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148141" title="Slash Records">
Slash Records

Slash Records is a record label in Los Angeles. It started out producing local and punk rock bands. The label was sold to London Records in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="148156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148156" title="John Macarthur (wool pioneer)">
John Macarthur (wool pioneer)

John Macarthur (1766 – 11 April 1834) was a soldier, business man, politician and the man who started the Australian wool industry. His farmhouse, called Elizabeth Farm after his wife, is still standing in Parramatta, New South Wales, where it is open to the public as a historic house.

</doc>
<doc id="148157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148157" title="Lachlan Macquarie">
Lachlan Macquarie

Major-General Lachlan Macquarie CB (31 January 1762 – 1 July 1824) was a British military officer and the fifth Governor of New South Wales from 1810 to 1821. He had a leading role in the social, economic and architectural development of Australia. Historians say he changed New South Wales from a penal colony to a free settlement. This was very important in making the future of Australian society. 
Macquarie was born on the island of Ulva, in the Inner Hebrides, Scotland. His father had a small farm at Oskamull on Mull. Macquarie's brother Donald, died as a prisoner of war during the American Revolution. Macquarie joined the army, the Royal Highland Emigrants. He was sent to Nova Scotia in 1776, and later served at New York and Charleston. In 1781 he became a Lieutenant and went to Jamaica for three years. He went back to Scotland, for a few years on half pay. He then joined the 77th Regiment and went to India.
Macquarie was able to advance in rank a number of times which helped him pay off his debts. In 1793 he married Jane Jarvis. She was the daughter of the former Chief Justice of Antigua, who was living in Bombay. In 1795 Macquarie fought the Dutch on Ceylon. In 1796 he became the Governor of Ceylon. He had go back to his wife who was ill. She died from tuberculosis at Macao, in China, on 15 July 1796. He brought her body back to India and she was buried in Bombay on 16 January 1797. He stayed in the army and fought at the Battle of Seringapatam. In 1800 he became the military secretary to the Governor of Bombay. In 1801, Macquarie went to Egypt to fight the French. Later, after the French were defeated, he became deputy adjutant general, in charge of the remaining British forces. He went back to Bombay in 1802. He then went to Scotland to sort out his business affairs.
Macquarie had become quite rich during his time in India, as was able to buy 10,000 acres on Mull. During his stay in England he was made the assistant adjutant general of London when war started again with the French. In 1804, he met Elizabeth Campbell who would later become his second wife. He served in Bombay again for several years, before going back to Britain in 1807 to join the 73rd Regiment. He married Elizabeth in Devon, before going to Perth. The 73rd Regiment was going to be posted to Australia to replace the New South Wales Corps, and Macquarie was told he would be the new Governor of New South Wales. He was to take over from William Bligh who had been removed from power during the Rum Rebellion. He arrived in December 1809, and took up his new job as governor on 1 January 1810.
He was ordered to arrest John Macarthur and George Johnston who were the leaders of the Rum Rebellion but they had already sailed to England before he got to Australia. There was a large increase in the number of convicts sent to Australia while Macquaire was governor. He used the extra convicts to build roads, building, and towns. He gave tickets of leave to well behaved convicts. This caused him problems with the free settlers, people who had not been convicts. They thought they should have special rights, and that the convicts should not be seen as their equals. They made many complaints about Macquarie's government back to their friends in England.
Clashes between the settlers and the Aborigines increased. Macquarie believed that the best way to treat Aboriginal people was to 'civilise' them. That meant replacing their traditional way of life with European ways. He set up a school for children but most left or went back to their families after a short time. He tried to make a small town to teach the Aborigines how to farm and build houses. He made laws to place Aborigines under British control. 
Macquarie resigned at the end of 1821 because of poor health and the difficulty of the job. He served longer than any other governor. When he left 265 major works had been completed, including new army barracks, three convict barracks, roads to Parramatta, a road across the Blue Mountains, stables, a hospital and five towns along the Hawkesbury River, which were out of reach of floodwaters.
In 1822 and 1823 Macquarie took his family on a holiday to France, Italy and Switzerland. In 1824 he went back to live in his house on Mull. In April 1824 he died in London from a bladder and kidney infection. His body was sent back to his home for burial. His grave is now looked after by the National Trust of Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="148164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148164" title="She Wants You">
She Wants You

"She Wants You" is a single by English singer and actress Billie Piper. The single reached #3 in the UK becoming her third top three hit in a row.
CD single 1
CD single 2

</doc>
<doc id="148165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148165" title="Honey to the Bee">
Honey to the Bee

"Honey to the Bee" is a single by Billie Piper released in 1999. It got to #3 in the UK singles chart. In January 2007, the song was used by Radio 1 DJ Chris Moyles as part of an experiment to test out the new British singles chart rules that came into effect that month, which prompted the song to rise up the iTunes music charts, and reached number 17 in the singles chart on 21 January 2007 and number 11 in the download chart.
CD single 1
CD single 2

</doc>
<doc id="148171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148171" title="Category:Doctor Who characters">
Category:Doctor Who characters

Articles about fictional characters of the British science fiction television series Doctor Who. 

</doc>
<doc id="148174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148174" title="British Rail Class 325">
British Rail Class 325

The British Rail Class 325 is a dual-voltage alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) train used for postal train services. Their cabs look similar to the Class 365 and Class 465 "Networker" units built around the same time. The Class 325 was British Rail's newest unit to take over parcels working on electrified lines.

</doc>
<doc id="148175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148175" title="British Rail Class 332">
British Rail Class 332

The British Rail Class 332 (originally Class 331) is a type of electric multiple unit train used on the Heathrow Express. This type of train goes from London Paddington station to Heathrow Airport. There are 14 trains which have four or five carriages each. They were built in 1998 by Siemens and CAF at a factory in Zaragoza, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="148177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148177" title="British Rail Class 333">
British Rail Class 333

The British Rail Class 333 electric multiple units were built by Siemens and are based on the Class 332 trains operated by Heathrow Express.

</doc>
<doc id="148178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148178" title="British Rail Class 334">
British Rail Class 334

The British Rail Class 334 is a suburban electric multiple unit built by the train maker Alstom in Birmingham. They are part of the Juniper family of trains along with Classes 458 and 460. They were built for SPT/Abellio ScotRail outer suburban services in Glasgow, UK. Their introduction saw the withdrawal of the last of Glasgow's old Class 303 "Blue Train" sets which had been in service since 1960.
Their introduction saw the withdrawal of the last of Glasgow's old Class 303 "Blue Train" trains which had been in service since 1960. Although delivered to Strathclyde in 1999-2002, they did not enter passenger service until 2001 due to a large number of problems (like other newly delivered Juniper trains) and technical issues which plagued the new units at their introduction. SPT had ordered 38 Juniper units originally, but two were added to the order as a goodwill gesture, because of these problems.
SPT purchased a total of 40 units, although only paying for 38 of the units (2 were given free, with the reason stated above) which can be seen in use daily across the SPT electric network. On the first running of the units, 334010 and 334020 ran to Gourock. Initially the units ran Ayrshire Coast Line and Inverclyde Line services but then become a common sight on the Argyle Line and North Clyde Line.
In December 2010, the Class 334s operated the Ayrshire Coast Line, Inverclyde Line, North Clyde Line and Argyle Line.
By June 2011 the class was substantially replaced by the Class 380 units on the Ayrshire Coast Line and Inverclyde lines, with only occasional units seen on those routes, to be refurbished.
In September 2008, the Scottish Government's agency Transport Scotland announced that all "ScotRail" trains (including from the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport) would be eventually repainted in a new, blue livery with white Saltire markings on the carriage ends. Class 334 re-livery began in November 2010 in preparation for the Airdrie to Bathgate reopening.
On 24 August 2011, ScotRail announced plans to refurbish all the fleet, with the project expected to start in November 2011 and take two years to complete. 334020 was the first to be properly refurbished at Kilmarnock's Brodie Rail Works. It was there for 3 months from 3 February 2012 to 2 May 2012. The last unit to receive a full refresh was 334006 which left Brodie Works on 8 November 2014.
From early 2015, an extensive overhaul will be carried out by Alstom to the entire fleet to improve passenger conditions, which will include the retrofitting of full air conditioning, at-seat charging points, provision for wi-fi, and reliability improvements to the doors. Additionally, a new CCTV system for Driver Only Operation will be installed.

</doc>
<doc id="148179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148179" title="British Rail Class 341 and 342">
British Rail Class 341 and 342

Class 341 and Class 342 were proposed electric multiple unit classes from the Networker series planned to operate new services on the UK rail network.

</doc>
<doc id="148180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148180" title="British Rail Class 350">
British Rail Class 350

The British Rail Class 350 "Desiro" is class of electrical multiple unit built by Siemens AG from 2004- present. Thirty of these units, known as Class 350/1s, were built for use by Central Trains and Silverlink on regional express services and Central Citylink services on the southern section of the West Coast Main Line. A further 37 units known as Class 350/2s are currently being delivered to the UK for London Midland. The "Desiro" family also includes units of Classes 185, 360, 444 and 450. This train is nearly identical to the 450, as it was originated from that.

</doc>
<doc id="148181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148181" title="British Rail Class 357">
British Rail Class 357

The British Rail Class 357 "Electrostar" alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by ADtranz, Derby (now owned by Bombardier Transportation) from 1999 to 2002 at a cost of approximately £350 million. The Electrostar family also includes Classes 375, 376, 377 and 378, and is the most numerous type of EMU built in the post-privatisation period of Britain's railways. These units were built in two batches for LTS Rail, since rebranded as c2c.

</doc>
<doc id="148182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148182" title="British Rail Class 360">
British Rail Class 360

The British Rail Class 360 electric multiple units were built by Siemens in two sub-types from 2000-2005. These units are part of the Desiro family.

</doc>
<doc id="148183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148183" title="British Rail Class 365">
British Rail Class 365

The British Rail Class 365 "Networker Express" are dual-voltage (25kV AC and 750V DC) electric multiple units built by ABB at York from 1994-95. These were the last units to be built at York works before it closed. All Class 365 units in service have now received front end cab modifications to equip them with cab air conditioning.

</doc>
<doc id="148185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148185" title="British Rail Class 370">
British Rail Class 370

British Rail's Class 370 tilting trains, also referred to as APT-P (meaning Advanced Passenger Train Prototype), were the pre-production Advanced Passenger Train units. Unlike the earlier experimental gas-turbine APT-E unit, these units were powered by 25kV AC overhead electrification and were used on the West Coast Main Line between London Euston and Glasgow Central. The APT-P is the most powerful domestic train to have operated in Britain, the eight traction motors fitted to the two central Motor Cars giving a total output of 8,000 hp. This enabled the train to set the UK rail speed record of 162.2 mph in December 1979, a record that stood for 23 years.

</doc>
<doc id="148186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148186" title="British Rail Classes 371, 381 and 471">
British Rail Classes 371, 381 and 471

Class 371, Class 381 and Class 471 were proposed electric multiple unit classes from the Networker family intended to operate services in the south-east of England.

</doc>
<doc id="148187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148187" title="British Rail Class 373">
British Rail Class 373

The British Rail Class 373 or TGV-TMST train is an electric multiple unit that operates Eurostar's high-speed rail service between Britain, France and Belgium via the Channel Tunnel. Part of the TGV family, it has a smaller cross-section to fit within the constrictive British loading gauge, was originally able to operate on the UK third rail network, and has a lot of fireproofing in case of fire in the tunnel. This is both the longest——and fastest train in regular UK passenger service.

</doc>
<doc id="148191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148191" title="British Rail Class 375">
British Rail Class 375

The British Rail Class 375 Electrostar electric multiple unit train was built by Bombardier Transportation (previously ADtranz) at their Derby Works, from 1999 to 2005. The Electrostar family, which also includes Classes 357, 376, 377 and 378, is the most numerous type of EMU introduced since the privatisation of British Rail.

</doc>
<doc id="148192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148192" title="British Rail Class 376">
British Rail Class 376

The Class 376 Suburban Electrostar is a model of electric multiple-unit passenger train manufactured by Bombardier Transportation. It is part of the Electrostar family, which are the most common EMUs introduced since the privatisation of British Rail. The units were ordered by Connex South Eastern, introduced by South Eastern Trains, and are now operated by Southeastern.

</doc>
<doc id="148193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148193" title="British Rail Class 377">
British Rail Class 377

The Class 377 Electrostars are electric multiple units built by Bombardier Transportation (previously ADtranz) at their Derby Works, from 2001-present. The Electrostar family, which also includes Classes 357, 375 and 376, is the most numerous type of EMU built in the post-privatisation period of Britain's railways.

</doc>
<doc id="148196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148196" title="British Rail Class 378">
British Rail Class 378

The Class 378 Capitalstar is a type of electric multiple unit that has been ordered for the new London Overground network and franchise. The type is derived from the Class 376 trains currently used by Southeastern, and part of the Electrostar family, but featuring significant differences. Primarily, the Class 378 will feature fully longitudinal seating similar to that used on London Underground rolling stock, which is necessary for the high passenger volume services expected to be run on London Overground. The units will be constructed by Bombardier Transportation, and were initially announced as coming in two separate batches.

</doc>
<doc id="148198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148198" title="British Rail Class 380">
British Rail Class 380

Class 380 is the designation given to a class of electric multiple unit train that are used on the national railway network in Scotland, in the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="148208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148208" title="British Rail Class 390">
British Rail Class 390

The British Class 390 "Pendolino" electric multiple unit is a tilting train built by Fiat Ferroviaria utilising Fiat tilt systems. Fifty-three 9-car units were built for Virgin Trains from 2001 to 2004. These trains were the last to be assembled at Alstom's Washwood Heath plant, in Birmingham, before its closure in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="148224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148224" title="British Rail Class 395">
British Rail Class 395

Class 395 is the designation of new dual-voltage EMUs being built to operate new high speed domestic services on the High Speed 1 railway line in the United Kingdom. The trains will be the fastest operating domestic service trains in Britain, running at a maximum speed of when they are introduced by operator Southeastern in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="148225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148225" title="Wikipedia:Editor review/Bluegoblin7">
Wikipedia:Editor review/Bluegoblin7

 I've now been here for around two and a half months. I hope that ion that time I have made a positive impact to the wiki. Areas that I have helped to create include , and . I also run three bots, two semi-regularly and one is in the testing phase. I have been active in discussions on the wiki as well, and I also participate in vandalism reversion and warnings and have the rollbacker flag. You could also probably call me a Recent Changes Patroller. My work has also involved creating many stub articles for various British Rail TOPS classes, and there are more still to do. These will then be developed into larger articles and I hope to make a lot of them GAs and possibly VGAs. Finally, although it means nothing, my edit count is higher than a lot of users that hae been here double or even triple (and further) the amount of time I have been, showing my dedication to the wiki project. Please review me! Criticism is welcome in a constructive manner. 15:23, 29 December 2008 (UTC) 15:23, 29 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="148226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148226" title="Cyberman">
Cyberman

The Cybermen are a fictional race of cyborgs in the British television series "Doctor Who". They are one of the greatest and longest enemies of the Doctor. Cybermen were originally humanoids from the Earth's twin planet Mondas. The people of Mondas began to put more and more artificial metal parts into their bodies to keep themselves alive, making them cyborgs. This led to the race starting to think logically and calculating, showing no emotions. The Cybermen also turning other people into cyborgs.
They were created by Dr. Kit Pedler (the unofficial scientific advisor to the programme) and Gerry Davis in 1966, first appearing in the serial, "The Tenth Planet", which was the last to feature William Hartnell as the First Doctor. They have since been in the show a lot.
A parallel universe version of the Cybermen appeared in the 2006 series in the two-part story, "Rise of the Cybermen" and "The Age of Steel". They also appear in "Army Of Ghosts" and "Doomsday". They also appeared in the spin-off series "Torchwood" in the episode "Cyberwoman". They would later return to the new series in the 2008 Christmas Special "The Next Doctor", introducing two new types of cyberman; the Cyber-Shades and the Cyber-King. 
While the Doctor's other old enemies the Daleks did not change during the original series's twenty-six season run, the Cybermen were seen to change with almost every appearance. The Cybermen are humanoid, but have replaced their limbs and other body parts with non-living parts to the point where they don't have many flesh parts. In their first appearance in the series, the only portions of their bodies that still seemed human were their hands, but by their next appearance in "The Moonbase" (1967), their bodies were entirely covered up in their metal suits, with their hands replaced by two finger claws, but changed back to regular five finger hands in "The Invasion" (1968). As there are not many of them, the Cybermen often convert humans to cybermen.
It is assumed(and often implied) that there are still human parts beneath their suits, meaning they are actually cyborgs, not robots: in "The Tenth Planet", a Cyberman tells a group of humans that "our brains are just like yours", although by the time of "Attack of the Cybermen", their brains seem to have been replaced with electronics. In "Earthshock" (1982), the actors' chins were vaguely visible through a clear perspex area on the helmet to suggest some kind of human face. In "The Tomb of the Cybermen" (1967), veins were visible through the circular head of the Cyberman Controller and in "Attack of the Cybermen" (1985) and "The Age of Steel" (2006), the Cyber-Controller's brain is visible through the dome. The first is a Mondas Cyber Controller, while the second is an alternative cyberman. However, in "Revenge of the Cybermen" (1975), the Doctor says they are "total machine creatures".
Although the Cybermen often claim that they have done away with human emotion, they have exhibited emotions ranging from anger to smug satisfaction in their confrontations with the Doctor (although this is only clearly present during their appearances in the 1980s). Some Cybermen in the early stories were even given individual names such as "Krang". Some parallel Earth Cybermen did retain some memories of their pre-conversion lives, although their emotional response varied
This motive behind the removal of emotions is made more clear in "The Age of Steel" where it is done by putting in things that keep them from feeling emotions. In that episode, the deactivation of their emotional inhibitors drives the converted Cybermen insane when they realise what they have become, killing them. This motive may also be applicable to Mondas Cybermen, given their forcible conversion of other lifeforms to Cybermen to maintain their numbers, despite the fact the Mondasians appear to have originally willingly converted themselves as a survival mechanism.
Cybermen have a number of weaknesses over the years. Their biggest weakness is gold. It was not mentioned that they did not like gold until their attempt to destroy the planetoid Voga (the so-called "Planet of Gold") in "Revenge of the Cybermen" (1975). Initially, it was explained that, because it is very hard to grind up, gold chokes their respiratory systems. For example, the However, in later serials, gold appeared to affect them rather like silver affects werewolves, with gold coins or bullets with gold on the edge fired at them having the same effect. The revived series' Cybermen have no weakness to gold.
Nearly all the cyberman costumes were silver in colour and included items and material such as cloth, rubber diving suits, PVC, chest units, tubing, practice golf balls, cricketers' gloves, and silver-painted Doc Martens boots. A BBC Cyberman costume from the black & white era of TV has recently been discovered.
The 1980s design used converted flight suits painted silver. Unlike the Doctor's other enemies, the Cybermen have changed a lot in appearance over the years, looking more and more modern, although retaining certain commonalities of design, the most iconic being the "handle bars" attached to Cybermen heads, that were supposed to aid with their hearing, their round eyeholes and their chest units. Completely black-coloured Cybermen were seen briefly in "Attack of the Cybermen".
The Cybermen returned in episodes 5 and 6 of the 2006 season of the new series, in a two-part story set on an alternate Earth. The new Cybermen were designed by production designer Edward Thomas's team and Neill Gorton at Millennium FX. The new Cyberman design is tall, in a style reminiscent of Art Deco, with their Cybus Corporation logo on their chests and made to look like burnished steel instead of silver. The other big changes in the Cyberman design is that the Cyber-Controller had glowing eyes, a transparent forehead revealing the brain, and sockets on its chest-plate providing connectors to other systems.
Early Cybermen had an unsettling, sing-song voice, created by changing their voices slightly on syllables which a voice does not normally change. Their mouths opened fully and did not move when they were talking, then their mouths would shut as soon as they stopped talking. However they stopped doing this after their first few appearances.
The voices for the 2006 return of the Cybermen were provided by Nicholas Briggs (who performed the voices for the Cybermen in Big Finish audio stories as well as the Daleks in both the new series and the audio stories). Shown in the season 2 DVD special feature "Confidential Cut Downs," the voice was created by processing Brigg's voice through a voice modulator. The new Cybermen have a blue light in their "mouths" which blinks in synchronisation with their speech.
The Cybermen also use smaller, cybernetic creatures called "cybermats" to attack. In their first appearance in "The Tomb of the Cybermen", they resembled big metal fish and had segmented bodies with hair sensor probes along the base of their heads, which were topped with eyes. The Second Doctor described them as a "form of metallic life,".
The second model of cybermat seen in "The Wheel in Space" was used for sabotage, able to listen to human brainwaves. They were carried to the "Wheel" in small sacs that sank through the walls of the space station, causing drops in air pressure.
The third model, seen in "Revenge of the Cybermen", was a much larger, snake-like cybermat that could be remotely controlled and could inject poison into its victims.
Cybermats appear in Blood of the Cybermen. They look like flat snakes, and can turn living things into Cyber-Slaves with their poison. They are remote controlled, and are of the new, 3rd race of cybermen. They are Cyber Cats and Dogs.
On the BBC website, the Cybus Cybermen appear in two online games, Cyber Assault and Save Paris, both depicting the war between the Cybermen and Preachers on the parallel Earth. The Adventure Games has an episode, Blood of the Cybermen, which feature a 3rd, new race of Cybermen.

</doc>
<doc id="148227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148227" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Bluegoblin7">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/Bluegoblin7

I have lots of plans for 2009 ;)
Firstly, I will be RfAing in the early stages of next year, and I hope that that passes and I can serve the wiki further. On the subject of Rf*'s, I expect us to get another 'crat and at least 2 more admins (not including myself).
On the article front, I will continue with British Rail Classes, and then expand onto Steam, Departmentals and eventually TOCs, Makers etc. Then i'll expand outwards on the transport front, and also do some on Derbyshire and London. My big plan is to create the 50,000 article ;)
I also hope to write at least 1 VGA and 2 GAs - I think this is possible, and I already have Crich Tramway Village at PGA.
On the wiki front, hopefully the flood flag will be enabled, and I also hope for the project to become more active and we can have "proper" WikiProjects ;).
I will also be planning to bring GBot3 online, and GBot4 is in the pipeline.
Finally, on the Wikicup: It would be bad for me to make predictions as a judge, but i'm just going to say that some of the groups are very hard, and I wish the best of luck to everyone!
Happy New Year everyone!

</doc>
<doc id="148228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148228" title="Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/GoblinBot1">
Wikipedia:Simple News/Special Edition/GoblinBot1

During 2009 I plan to become more efficient and less broken with delivering Simple News. I also plan on handing over the task of updating ToTW to my sister GoblinBot4 when she comes online, as she will be able to do it better than me. I will become a dedicated delivery bot (DDB).
My brother GoblinBot2 is planning on becoming more active again, mainly in the area of stub replacement. He thinks that he can be a lot of service with AWB access and a bot flag.
My other sister GoblinBot3 is also getting ready to start editing as an interwiki bot. She has been given a trial period, so soon she will begin in -autonomous mode - it is all very exciting!
I hope you all have a good New Year and that it brings what you expect.

</doc>
<doc id="148230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148230" title="Category:Transport stubs">
Category:Transport stubs

If you would like to request a stub type, please bring it up first. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="148232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148232" title="Marlborough">
Marlborough

Marlborough is a town in Wiltshire, England, United Kingdom. It is the home of a famous school, Marlborough College. Other notable schools include St. John's Academy and St. Peter's Primary School.
The Dukes of Marlborough take their name from the town, but their seat in near Oxford. 

</doc>
<doc id="148233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148233" title="Anatidae">
Anatidae

Anatidae is the biological family of birds that includes the ducks, geese and swans. 
These birds are common and widespread, and live in or near water. The family has a cosmopolitan distribution, on all the world's continents except Antarctica and on most of the world's islands and island groups. 
These are birds that are adapted for swimming, floating on the water surface, and in some cases diving. The family has about 146 species in 40 genera. They are usually herbivorous, and are monogamous breeders. A number of species do annual migrations. A few species have been domesticated for agriculture, and many others are hunted for food and recreation. Five species have become extinct since 1600, and others are close to extinction.

</doc>
<doc id="148234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148234" title="Anatinae">
Anatinae

The Anatinae is a subfamily of the family Anatidae that including swans, geese and ducks.
They are the dabbling ducks. They feed mainly at the surface rather than by diving. The subfamily contains only the dabbling ducks and one relative, the extinct moa-nalos, land ducks which lived on some Hawaiian islands.

</doc>
<doc id="148235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148235" title="High-Definition Multimedia Interface">
High-Definition Multimedia Interface

The High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) is an audio/video interface for transmitting uncompressed digital data. The main use of an HDMI cable is to connect components such as a DVD player to a High-definition television (HDTV). HDMI is the uncompressed, all-digital standard used for High-Definition (HD) quality for consumer electronics and PC products using a single cable. It transmits digital video, multi-channel surround sound, and control data through a single cable. It replaces up to eleven older cables with a single connection. It uses the same technology as DVI.

</doc>
<doc id="148241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148241" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 51">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 51

I'd like to propose moving from where it currently resides (in Kennedy's userspace) to (in Wikipedia space). This move would have to take place after the second issue has come out in a few days, and the page would contain both archives for old issues, rules that articles should adhere to and possibly a template for Simple News itself.
The contributors have shown that they are committed to the project, and I think that it would attract attention and perhaps make the project seem more 'official' if it were in the Wikipedia: space. What do you lot think? -- 11:23, 13 December 2008 (UTC)
Hey all,
Two things really, can someone with a good knowledge of .js please look at , and can someone with good template knowledge please look at and see if they can fix the image problem?
Thanks,
When I go onto the twin cities of a city, I see a UK flag in place for the flag of either England, Wales, Scotland, or Northern Ireland. Why is this? 11:32, 14 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello all,
I'm here to propose that the Nation's Cup of the Wikicup be shut down. It's causing way too much dramaz, and is actually detracting from the whole point of the cup. People are more worried about who they are going to be on a team with rather than actually getting on with preparing and editing. The countries saga is just ridiculous as well.
I also don't see how having a team cup will help at all, except making more work for myself and Gwib.
Thanks,
Tell you what BG, I'll run it myself. I'll only have to add the points. It won't be that hard, just don't worry about it. 21:05, 14 December 2008 (UTC)
I'm atheist, so nothing to worry about for me, and if we did reschedule it, it would probably be around spring or summer break, when some people might go on vacation or something. -- () 19:11, 15 December 2008 (UTC)
"reset" Yes! Of course! Nothing is wrong with how that's happening, I only have an issue with the Nation's Cup - perhaps next year, i'll draw up a detailed proposal. So, can I officially close Nations? 19:26, 15 December 2008 (UTC)
Well, Nations Cup and WikiCup are two projects, all at the same time. =\ So, we could have Nations Cup odd number years and WikiCup even numbered ones. -- () 19:37, 15 December 2008 (UTC)
Hey all,
I hope that this can be the last time we bring this here, as I think it can solve all remaining issues.
It relates to the update process.
What I suggest is:
If any editor has a discrepancy with any hook, they can remove it from the next update page as long as the discussion is re-added.
Thanks,
Its fine, I suppose. For now. Once we have more editors involved I'd like it better if 2 or more were placed before removing. Also, I'd love to get a bot in there to do the clerking one day. 10:24, 15 December 2008 (UTC)
Here on Simple English Wikipedia, I see place names being wrong with en.wikipedia having the right title (i.e. Scarborough, England's en equivalent is ). Why is this? 23:00, 19 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello there...
I just wanted to remind you that we currently have 10 articles waiting for comments/input the page, and 7 on the page. Originally we have fixed a "deadline"; please have a look and leave your comments. 
Thanks. -- () 09:28, 20 December 2008 (UTC)
When I go onto the sandbox and edit, people say that my edits are vandalism. You are allowed to do anything on the sandbox. So why is this? 12:00, 20 December 2008 (UTC)
When I go onto most pages, people ALWAYS seem to miss out the word 'the'. Why, oh why, is this? 13:01, 21 December 2008 (UTC)
The editor who wrote it may not use definite articles the same way that English does in their language. 15:17, 21 December 2008 (UTC)
I'm looking for editors to help me with articles relating to Mumia Abu-Jamal. In the next few weeks, I will be working on articles relating to that and the subject article. I am not very good with simplification, and I have what may be perceived as a 'bias' for his release (though all I want is a fair trial, it just so happens that a fair trial, where all evidence is carefully reviewed, would release him and find him not guilty), so I would like people to scrutinize my edits. Can someone with knowledge of the case please help me out? 15:17, 21 December 2008 (UTC)
Hmm, either or this is incorrect. Also, I see a not on that edit page while that is a bot free list. I'm tired. Is it just me or do others see this?   01:39, 22 December 2008 (UTC)
Last time a discussion about this was started, there was some consensus about writing him a . However, it has been quite some time already and no action has been taken. back again and is going to create a lot of work for us with his mass categorisation. A number of them seem to be biased towards Pakistan (Kashmir is currently disputed territory). What should we do now?     02:29, 22 December 2008 (UTC)
I'd like to first, create the stub category, and second transclude the category to the template, so all stubs will fall into one category. I'd like to do this so I can find stubs easier (for example: all stubs starting with the letter "f"). Any objections? I'd like to start fixing and adding info to a number of stub pages and this seems the most sensible idea. 21:27, 22 December 2008 (UTC)
I'd like to also say that once this is done, the will begin. Anyone is able to join, and we'll be judging the need for any "new" stub types, depending on how many articles we have for that specific subject. 02:20, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
What does everyone think of creating a Simple Wikinews? I think it would be a good addition to the simple projects, and i'm going to start up an incubator version if enough people like the idea.
Thoughts?
Cheers,
I suppose you could do propose it on Wikia, but you can't run it as an affiliation of WMF without approval. --  () 22:28, 22 December 2008 (UTC)
We need less useless projects destined to fail, not another one. Look at what happened to Simple Wikiquote. It's become a playground for SwirlBoy, American Eagle, and there have been no (correct me if I'm wrong) non-native-English speakers that contribute in its history. This is obviously not worth the bandwidth, time, or space to discuss, let alone set up the project. 01:20, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Can someone please allow non-registered users to completely remove the "Donate Now!" banner, which is virtually pushing one, coercing them, to fill Jimbo's pockets. Can you at lease give the anonymous users the "opportunity" to get a break from this annoying crap without having to create an account? Forcefeeding them an exaggerating, saccharine beg for money from Jimbo isn't helping. Just as one can remove the Wikicup notice, can that option please replace "collapse"? 01:25, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Yecch, Jimbo's overpowering kool-aid has been spread all over the place. I'm not thirsty, and I'm sure many readers aren't either. 
Edit 01:34, 23 December 2008 (UTC): I may come off as too harsh, but I just don't think we should be forced to donate, or pushed so hard. 
Does it really harm you that much? I mean just ignore it. Do you think it costs nothing to maintain this site? I mean everyone is welcome to contribute in their own way, either by editing or donating or whatever. If you don't want to donate, then don't do it, no one is holding a gun to your head to make you donate. The banner isn't going to harm you and is a necessary evil to you know have a wiki that can actually be edited... - () 14:12, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Dsjasso: I was actually talking about logged-out users, who happen not to have an account, for personal reasons, or those who have not pursued account creation yet. And yes, it is quite annoying, especially since Jimbo got rich off of futures trading and that WP gets enough donationa from the "E-yuppie techie" crowd like Roger McNamee. I 'donate' by writing articles and contributing to discussions regarding community governance. 
Bluegoblin: The collapse button is just the lesser of two annoyings.
Kennedy: For your reference, the word is spelled "privelige". 15:40, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Thank you, Peter. Bluegoblin: I'm tired of seeing Jimbo beg. And "most anons do not contribute to the encyclopedia constructively"? Can you please show evidence of this? I don't believe it. Also, some users (hi, Majorly) don't contribute to the encyclopedia much at all. I am complaining because I don't think that anons should be pushed to give to Wikipedia. You've already got 3 million dollars, give it a rest for those people who are tired of seeing you ask for money. Poor Jimbo. 15:58, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
I did not personally attack. I did not state that Majorly was not constructive period, I stated that he was not that much of a contributor to the encyclopedic part of Wikipedia, which I did on the basis of a statement that Majorly himself made. "I barely edit the encyclopedia on Simple" Please do not misinterpret that as a personal attack, as it would be no more of a personal attack than to accuse me of not contributing to the encyclopedia more than I do to discussion. 16:17, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Just because a person chooses to not have an account and edit from an IP doesn't mean they shouldn't be asked to donate any less than someone who has. They read the encyclopedia just like anyone else. Just because Jimbo does or does not have money doesn't enter into it, the foundation is a seperate entity. Just because you don't like to read a banner that can be collapsed doesn't mean it should be gone. It isn't harming you in any way, nor is it harming IP editors I am sure. And yes Jonas you comments towards majorly were a personal attack because your whole basis of arguement is that you can contribute in many ways to the encyclopedia and not just one. Majorly doesn't edit articles much but he does other things to contribute to the encyclopedia. - () 16:33, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Could someone please advise me? I have just created the page Opéra-Comique (opera house). This is a page about the opera house. The enwiki page on this subject is called Opéra-Comique. I would normally give my new page the same title as on enwiki. There is already a page (which I created a little while ago) on Opéra-comique (small case c). This is about the genre of French comic opera. It links to the enwiki page of the same title.
When I wanted to create my page about the opera house just now I was unable to do so, because typing "Opéra-Comique" in the search just redirected to the existing Opéra-comique page. I could see no way round it other than to change the title to Opéra-Comique (opera house), which is what I did. However, when I then went to the Opéra-comique page and clicked on the red link to Opéra-Comique it opened up a box headed "Opéra-Comique" for me to create an page. So I could have done it that way? 
Two questions really: why did this happen? Secondly: having done what I have shall I leave it or should I change (move) the title to conform to enwiki title? Indeed, will I be able to move it? Thanks in advance. () 22:36, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Many thanks. Happy Christmas. () 22:58, 23 December 2008 (UTC)
Hi everyone. The simple news team has decided to have a released on the 28th or 29th of December. It will be announcing plans of users on wikipedia in 2009. But we need your help!! If you would like to help, then tell us about your plans or write about something else!! Write an article called and add it and I or BG7 will add it to the edition. Thanks for your help, 18:56, 24 December 2008 (UTC)
Merry Christmas to all wikimedians! Have a nice holiday! God bless. "*sings "Silent Night"*" --    07:30, 24 December 2008 (UTC)
For those of us celebrating Christmas, try putting up the template "subst:User:Flaming/MC2008" to your page. 
Merry Christmas! :) () 18:09, 24 December 2008 (UTC)
"Now" it is Christmas. ;-) @ 00:19, 25 December 2008 (UTC)
The problem that I have with the simple version is that if this project is intended for children, then there needs to be a rating level. Articles that would not pass a movie rating of PG or PG-13 should not be in here. Does a child really need to see a video of a man ejaculating or even read an article about a man ejaculating or see diagrams of men and women masterbating? IMO, if a child is interested in that content they should read the adult article with their parents. Maybe include a simplified sub-heading on the main article that is intended for high school and middle school children.
Why do we need an wikipedia in simple English for ESL adults? Why can't they just read an article in their native language? Or why not just read the regular article? How many adults do you know of who can't honestly figure out what the adult content articles are talking about especially with the pictures and videos that people like to include in these type of articles in the name of understanding the topic?
My gripe is the articles in this project that are not content appropriate for children. I just don't see the need for a simple English wikipedia for adults when this issue can be addressed by simply adding a sub-heading on a given article. ()
Well, I've been working like hell in my sandbox, and have no clue how to insert a scrollbar to deal with a hoard of Userboxes! Anyone can help me??? () 20:17, 24 December 2008 (UTC)
Hi, I'd like to have a poll for our simple News special edition about the . It would be "who do you think will win the wikicup?" Please reply underneath, and before the 28th of december. Thanks, 12:50, 25 December 2008 (UTC)
I've recently chucked in editing on the English Wikipedia for various reasons (that I won't bore you with right now) but I can assure you I did so for my own reasons and was not forced. I may disclose my EN account at a later stage, but I'd rather not be prejudged, in whatever way, for now.
Anyway my query is about the lack of references in articles on Simple. I want to create a number of articles in the Simple English manner, and wondered if not using references was official policy here? Thank you all, () 13:20, 25 December 2008 (UTC)
Is it possible to make our rollback global? Just wondering... 20:02, 26 December 2008 (UTC)
Hello there all! Sorry to have been away for so long again, but I just felt like I needed more time off from this site. This site still gives me a few bad memories and I'm not sure if it will even help to make people believe that I would be a good administrator in the future, but I just think that I will give it one more shot. Cheers, 20:42, 26 December 2008 (UTC)
I am rtrying to get the 1606 UK flagicon, but I come up with the 1801 one. Why is this? 13:23, 27 December 2008 (UTC)
Excuse me if I stir up things a bit, but apparently nobody has effectively replied the two main objections raised against this project in the , namely,
I'm not opposed to the goals of this project: yesterday I was trying to find info for a homework for my second grade niece (on rubber for more information), and found that the "Standard" English was way above her understanding level, and the article on this project was vague, incomplete, and still not quite "simple".-- I'm willing to cooperate, but at this stage of development the name "simple" is misleading (it is not a language), and I have no clue about how to fix the article in question without clear criteria about what is "simple". I also tried to add an article on controlled languages, and found out that someone tried to make it "simple", but without any clear idea about how to do that. To me this seems to be a matter of taste, and taste is a bad standard.--- Slightly annoyed, () 20:48, 11 December 2008 (UTC)
(<-) Perhaps very simply put: 
I have an idea: I'm setting up a WikiProject so that discussion may take place . Just follow the rabbit! () 17:20, 27 December 2008 (UTC)
Let me take that back. I'll put it very simply before going any further. The vocabulary for an encyclopaedia can't be smaller than 3000 words, given the wide range of topics to cover. Online tools to check readability may also help. So, based on the current tools, I'd say that the standards may be the following: () 18:52, 27 December 2008 (UTC)
If you mix these three dictionaries you get a root vocabulary of about 3000 root words. () 18:52, 27 December 2008 (UTC)
This root dictionary may be completed with other word lists to guarantee that the articles look familiar to readers. These lists may be Dolch's 300 words for younger readers, Fry's 1000 Instant Words, and the first 1000 words from the General Service List. The total count of mixing these lists is around 1500. However, many of them are already counted in the 3000 words from the previous lists. () 18:52, 27 December 2008 (UTC)
Taking Dolch's and Fry's rule that one grade is equal to 100 words, the reading level is that of a Middle School graduate (10th grade). So the target audience may be either Middle School students (7th-10th grade), adults within that range (the average reading level in the U.S.A. is 7th grade), or ESL students in that level (advanced intermediate). () 18:52, 27 December 2008 (UTC)
I'm testing a spellchecker for Mozilla browsers based on this design. Those interested please post a message in my talk page. () 18:52, 27 December 2008 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="148242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148242" title="Oil tanker">
Oil tanker

An oil tanker, also known as a petroleum tanker, is a ship made for the bulk transport of oil. There are two basic types of oil tankers: the crude tanker and the product tanker. Crude tankers move large quantities of unrefined crude oil from its point of extraction to refineries. Product tankers, generally much smaller, are designed to move petrochemicals from refineries to points near consuming markets.

</doc>
<doc id="148278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148278" title="Strehaia">
Strehaia

Strehaia is a town in Mehedinţi County, Oltenia, Romania. About 11,800 people live in Strehaia as of the year 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="148289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148289" title="Category:Switzerland stubs">
Category:Switzerland stubs

If you would like to request a stub type, please bring it up first. Thank you.

</doc>
<doc id="148290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148290" title="Heritage railway">
Heritage railway

A heritage railway (United Kingdom), preserved railway (United Kingdom), or tourist railroad (United States and Canada) is a term used for a railway which is run as a tourist attraction, is usually but not always run by volunteers, and seeks to re-create railway scenes of the past. See List of heritage railways.

</doc>
<doc id="148327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148327" title="Chessel">
Chessel

Chessel is a municipality in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is found in the district of Aigle.

</doc>
<doc id="148328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148328" title="Duat">
Duat

is the Egyptian idea of the underworld (also called Akert, Amenthes, or Neter-khertet). To the Egyptians, the underworld was divided into sections filled with dangers that the Egyptian Soul had to pass through. This is the same realm that Ra was believed to pass into each night and battle Apophis. The Egyptian Underworld is described in many funerary texts that are found in tombs of mummies, believed to help guide them through death.
Duat is where the famous "Weighing of the Heart" is displayed. Where the soul, shown as a heart, is weighed on the scales of Anubis against the feather of Ma'at. Ammit was believed to eat the souls of the people whose heart did not match the exact weight of Ma'at's feather. It was thought that the heart itself was then eaten by a lion. 
The Egyptian idea of the underworld influenced many other ideas of afterlife in other cultures. 

</doc>
<doc id="148333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148333" title="Ammit">
Ammit

Ammit was the Egyptian idea of the punishment of the soul. The name means "devourer" or "soul-eater."Ammit was usually known as 'The Devourer of the Dead' or the 'Eater of Hearts'. Ammit was believed to eat any souls found to have sinned. They would then be digested for eternity in acid. Or, Ammit who was believed to be the guardian of a lake of fire, would place the soul into the liquid fire for all eternity.
Ammit appears as mix of the crocodile, leopard, and hippo. Rather than being worshipped, Ammit was feared. She was not viewed as a god, but she was viewed as a good force because she destroyed evil. Although Ammit is seen as a devouring entity, she is neutral and strictly serves at the whim of the other deities to take souls that have sinned against the gods and send them into oblivion. She was known as the crocodile goddess also known as Estriedia.
Ammit was believed to be Anubis's equal but she wanted more. She wanted to enter the real world and devour the souls of the living.
Ammit also intermittently appears as Ammit the Devourer in The Kane Chronicles. In the trilogy, it was kept at bay with Anubis.

</doc>
<doc id="148372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148372" title="Ostra, Suceava">
Ostra, Suceava

Ostra is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="148374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148374" title="Gyula, Hungary">
Gyula, Hungary

Gyula is a town in Békés county in the south-eastern part of Hungary.
Gyula is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="148378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148378" title="Bistriţa River">
Bistriţa River

Bistriţa River can be any of four rivers in Romania:

</doc>
<doc id="148400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148400" title="Gadsden, Alabama">
Gadsden, Alabama

Gadsden is a city and the county seat of Etowah County, northeastern Alabama, United States, aboutapproximately 60 miles northeast of Birmingham.

</doc>
<doc id="148404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148404" title="Geneva, Alabama">
Geneva, Alabama

Geneva is a city in and the county seat of Geneva County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Dothan, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area. It is also the largest city of Geneva County.

</doc>
<doc id="148405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148405" title="Gardendale, Alabama">
Gardendale, Alabama

Gardendale is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States, and a northern suburb of Birmingham.

</doc>
<doc id="148408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148408" title="Akan, Wisconsin">
Akan, Wisconsin

Akan is a town in Richland County, Wisconsin, United States. 444 people lived there as of the year 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="148409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148409" title="Alban, Wisconsin">
Alban, Wisconsin

Alban is a town in Portage County, Wisconsin, United States. 897 people lived there as of the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="148410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148410" title="Guntersville, Alabama">
Guntersville, Alabama

Guntersville is a city in Marshall County, Alabama, United States and is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. At the 2000 census, the population of the city was 7,395. The city is the county seat of Marshall County.

</doc>
<doc id="148411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148411" title="Guin, Alabama">
Guin, Alabama

Guin is a city in Marion County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,389.
On April 3, 1974, Guin was devastated by an F5 tornado during the Super Outbreak, the largest tornado outbreak on record. The death toll in Guin was 30, which, at the time, was 11% of the population.

</doc>
<doc id="148412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148412" title="Greenville, Alabama">
Greenville, Alabama

Greenville is a city in Butler County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 7,228. The city is the county seat of Butler County. It is called the Camellia City, the state flower of Alabama.
The city of Greenville has an average high temperature of 77.30 degrees and an average low temperature of 53.80 degrees Fahrenheit. The city averages 4.80 inches of precipitation per month.
The local government of Greenville is run by the Mayor and City Council. The city council has five members.
The city's residents were on the first episode of the ABC reality/game show series "My Kind of Town", on Sunday, August 14, 2005.
Greenville is the location of a Robert Trent Jones-designed golf course, Cambrian Ridge. The clubhouse for the golf course is on the highest point in Butler County.
Greenville is home to Sherling Lake Park and Campground which has 41 campsites and surrounds two lakes.
Greenville is also the home of the Watermelon Jubilee, a local arts and crafts exposition held each year in the month of August. Every year in September, the city hosts the Butler County Fair. Also, during the fall, Greenville hosts Old Time Farm Day which features activities such as tractor races, blacksmithing and quilting demonstrations.

</doc>
<doc id="148413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148413" title="Greensboro, Alabama">
Greensboro, Alabama

Greensboro is a city in Hale County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,731. The city is the county seat of Hale County. It is part of the Tuscaloosa, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="148414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148414" title="Graysville, Alabama">
Graysville, Alabama

Graysville is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,344.

</doc>
<doc id="148415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148415" title="Goodwater, Alabama">
Goodwater, Alabama

Goodwater is a city in Coosa County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 1,633. It is part of the Alexander City Micropolitan Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="148416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148416" title="Glencoe, Alabama">
Glencoe, Alabama

Glencoe is a city in Calhoun and Etowah Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is part of the Gadsden Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2000 census the population was 5,152.

</doc>
<doc id="148417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148417" title="Albany, Green County, Wisconsin">
Albany, Green County, Wisconsin

Albany is a town in Green County, Wisconsin, United States. 775 people lived here as of the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="148419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148419" title="Albany, Pepin County, Wisconsin">
Albany, Pepin County, Wisconsin

Albany is a town in Pepin County, Wisconsin, United States. 620 people lived here as of the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="148420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148420" title="Albion, Dane County, Wisconsin">
Albion, Dane County, Wisconsin

Albion is a town in Dane County, Wisconsin, United States. 1,823 people lived here as of the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="148471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148471" title="Reedy Creek Observatory">
Reedy Creek Observatory

Reedy Creek Observatory is an observatory for looking at Near-Earth objects. It is run by John Broughton, an Australian astronomer. It can be found on the Gold Coast, Queensland at Reedy Creek, Queensland.

</doc>
<doc id="148487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148487" title="Prescott Observatory">
Prescott Observatory

Prescott Observatory is an observatory that is used by Paul G. Comba. He looks at Near-Earth objects through a telescope. Many asteroids have been found at Prescott Observatory.

</doc>
<doc id="148494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148494" title="Falconiformes">
Falconiformes

The order Falconiformes is a group of about 290 species of birds that include the diurnal (active during dawn and dusk) birds of prey. All have young that remain in the nest for some time after being hatched, and are cared for by both parents.

</doc>
<doc id="148534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148534" title="Samson, Alabama">
Samson, Alabama

Samson is a city in Geneva County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Dothan, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2000 census the population was 2,071.

</doc>
<doc id="148535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148535" title="Saraland, Alabama">
Saraland, Alabama

Saraland is a city in Mobile County, Alabama, in the United States. It is a suburb of Mobile, Alabama, and part of the Mobile metropolitan statistical area. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city was 12,288. Saraland is the third largest city in Mobile County.

</doc>
<doc id="148536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148536" title="Satsuma, Alabama">
Satsuma, Alabama

Satsuma is a city in Mobile County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 5,687. It is a part of the Mobile metropolitan statistical area.

</doc>
<doc id="148537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148537" title="Scottsboro, Alabama">
Scottsboro, Alabama

Scottsboro is a city in Jackson County, Alabama, United States, and is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 14,762. Named for its founder Robert Scott, the city is the county seat of Jackson County.

</doc>
<doc id="148538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148538" title="Selma, Alabama">
Selma, Alabama

Selma is a city in and the county seat of Dallas County, Alabama, United States, located on the banks of the Alabama River. The population was 20,512 at the 2000 census. The city is best known for the Selma to Montgomery marches, three civil rights marches that began in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="148539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148539" title="Sheffield, Alabama">
Sheffield, Alabama

Sheffield is a city in Colbert County, Alabama, United States, and is included in The Shoals MSA. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 9,652. Sheffield is the birthplace of notable attorney, actor, former senator and presidential contender Fred Thompson.

</doc>
<doc id="148540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148540" title="Slocomb, Alabama">
Slocomb, Alabama

Slocomb is a city in Geneva County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Dothan, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2000 census the population was 2,052. The community is named after postmaster, Frank W. Slocomb.

</doc>
<doc id="148541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148541" title="Smiths Station, Alabama">
Smiths Station, Alabama

Smiths Station is a city in Lee County, Alabama, United States. It is a part of the Auburn Metropolitan Area, but is more closely tied to the Columbus, Georgia-Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="148542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148542" title="Stevenson, Alabama">
Stevenson, Alabama

Stevenson is a city in Jackson County, Alabama, United States, and is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 1,770.

</doc>
<doc id="148543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148543" title="Spanish Fort, Alabama">
Spanish Fort, Alabama

Spanish Fort is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States. It is on the eastern shore of Mobile Bay.

</doc>
<doc id="148545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148545" title="Southside, Alabama">
Southside, Alabama

Southside is a city in Etowah county in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is part of the Gadsden Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 7,036 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="148546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148546" title="Sulligent, Alabama">
Sulligent, Alabama

Sulligent is a city in Lamar County, Alabama, United States. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 2,151. The name is derived from railroad personae.

</doc>
<doc id="148547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148547" title="Sumiton, Alabama">
Sumiton, Alabama

Sumiton is a city in Jefferson and Walker Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. At the 2000 census the population was 2,665.

</doc>
<doc id="148548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148548" title="Sylacauga, Alabama">
Sylacauga, Alabama

Sylacauga is a city in Talladega County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 12,616.

</doc>
<doc id="148549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148549" title="Sadova, Suceava">
Sadova, Suceava

Sadova is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="148567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148567" title="Fireflight">
Fireflight

Fireflight is an American Christian rock band which originated from Eustis, Florida. The band formed in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="148569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148569" title="Teasc">
Teasc

Teasc is a commune of Dolj County, Romania. 3,360 people live in Teasc.

</doc>
<doc id="148573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148573" title="Christian rock">
Christian rock

Christian rock is a type of rock music that is performed by Christians. It often has lyrics and themes dealing with Christianity.
Christian rock started as "Jesus music" and piano in church but has become a form of modern music that has become more popular. Some Christian rock bands such as Switchfoot and P.O.D. have become popular even with fans who are not Christians.
Some Christians do not like the idea of this type of music and think rock in any form is a work of the Devil.
Other bands in this genre include Skillet, Fireflight and Red. There are many more.

</doc>
<doc id="148575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148575" title="Category:Christian rock bands">
Category:Christian rock bands

This category contains Christian rock bands, groups or singers.

</doc>
<doc id="148590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148590" title="Michael Howe (bushranger)">
Michael Howe (bushranger)

Michael Howe (1787 – 21 October 1818) was a famous bushranger in Tasmania, Australia. He called himself the "Lieutenant Governor of the Woods". He kept a written record of his thoughts in a book he called "The Journal of Dreams".
Howe was born in Pontefract, Yorkshire, in 1787. He joined the merchant navy at Hull. After a short while he ran away and joined the Royal Navy. He deserted (left without permission) the navy after two years. He had his own small boat and carried coal. In 1811 Howe was arrested at York and charged with highway robbery. He was sentenced to seven years in Van Diemen's Land.
Howe arrived in Hobart on October 19, 1812, on the convict ship "Indefatigable". He was sent to work for John Ingle, who had once been the Supervisor of Convicts. He was now a farmer and merchant. Howe soon escaped and went into the bush. He joined up with a large group of escaped convicts who had become bushrangers (robbers). The gang of 28 was led by John Whitehead. It included two soldiers (who had deserted) and two aboriginal women.
The bushrangers robbed a lot of houses and farms around New Norfolk. On April 25, 1815, the gang went to the house of a Mr.Carlisle. Carlisle and his friends went out to stop the gang from stealing a boat. Carlisle was shot dead, and his neighbour, Mr.O'Birne, was badly wounded. O'Birne died a few days later. The gang returned to New Norfolk in May 1815, to rob more houses. They met a group of soldiers and John Whitehead was shot and killed. To claim a reward for killing a bushranger, the body had to be identified. To stop people from claiming a reward for their capture, Howe and Whitehead had made a promise to each other. This would be to cut the head off whoever was killed first so no one would know who it was. As soon as Whitehead was shot, his head was cut off by Howe and hidden in the bush.
After Whitehead's death, Howe became leader of the gang of bushrangers. He set up the gang as if they were on board a ship. Gang members could be punished if they broke the gang's rules. Punishment included having to cut and carry firewood, and even included being lashed (whipped). Howe would read to them from the Bible. He wrote letters to Governor Davey. In 1816 he signed the letters as "Lieutentant Governor of the Woods." In 1817 he began calling himself the "Governor of the Ranges." He was living with an aboriginal woman, called "Black Mary." Members of the gang were known to be James Garry, Peter Septon, George Jones, Richard Colier, John Chapman, Thomas Coyne, James Parker, Mathew Kegan, John Brown and Nenis Curry. The gang continued to rob people at Green Point, Coal River, and Bagdad.
In 1817, Howe wrote to Governor William Sorell and offered to give himself up in return for a free pardon (not be put in gaol for any crimes). He offered to tell the government where all the gang members could be found. He was put into Hobart gaol while he was being questioned about the gang. He escaped while being taken for a walk through Hobart to get fresh air. He went back and rejoined the gang. Governor Lachlan Macquarie in Sydney stopped the pardon, and told Sorell to put more effort in to capture Howe. Sorell offered money, a free pardon and a return to England for anyone that captured Howe.
The hunt for the bushrangers became more organized. John Chapman and a man called Elliot were shot dead by the soldiers in 1817. A gang member called Hillier cut Peter Septon's head off to claim a reward. He also tried to cut off Richard Colier's head. Both men were hurt in the struggle. Hillier was taken to Sydney where he was executed by hanging. Colier was executed in Hobart on March 26, 1818. In April, 1818, a group of convicts tried to steal a government boat. They were going to rescue Howe and take him to America. John Brown, James Parker, Thomas Coyne and Mathew Kegan gave themselves up to the military. They were all taken to Newcastle, New South Wales where they were given the lash (whipped) and sent to gaol.
In September 1818, a group came from Sydney to join in the hunt for Howe. They wanted the reward. One member of the group was the famous aboriginal tracker, Mosquito. They nearly caught him. They did get his guns and his knapsack (a backpack). In the knapsack they found his "Journal of Dreams". It was a book made from kangaroo skin and Howe had written in it using kangaroo blood as ink. In it Howe wrote about his fear of being killed by the aborigines, his dreams of his sister, and lists of vegetables and flowers he would grow in a house in the forest. As he escaped, Howe thought Black Mary was slowing him down, so he tried to shoot her. 
On October 10, Howe was captured by two people he knew and trusted, Watts and Drewe. He managed to untie himself and stabbed Watts and shot Drewe dead. Watts died later from the injuries. On October 21, 1818, Black Mary led another two men, a convict, Thomas Worrall, and a soldier, William Pugh, to where Howe was hiding near the Shannon River. Worrall had been a sailor who had been sent to Van Diemen's Land for his part in the naval mutiny at the Nore (mouth of the Thames) in 1797. He wanted the reward so he could be free and return to England. All the men shot at each other, but after a fierce fight, Pugh and Worrall bashed Howe to death with their muskets (guns).
Howe was buried by the river, but his head was taken back to Hobart where it was put on public display.
Much of the information comes from a book by Governor Sorell's secretary, Thomas Wells. The book was called "Michael Howe, the Last and Worst of the Bushrangers of Van Diemen's Land" and printed in 1818 in Hobart. This was the first work of general literature printed in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="148611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148611" title="Neil Peart">
Neil Peart

Neil Peart (born Neil Ellwood Peart, September 12, 1952, Hamilton, Ontario) is a Canadian musician and author. He is best known as the drummer and lyricist for the rock band Rush. He is also an author of 4 books, including "Ghost Rider", a book about his life after both his daughter and his wife died within a year of each other. He has won many awards for his drumming, and is often considered one of the greatest drummers of all time. Peart was a guest star as himself in the "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" movie.

</doc>
<doc id="148637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148637" title="Category:Communes in Sarthe">
Category:Communes in Sarthe


</doc>
<doc id="148638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148638" title="Communes of the Sarthe department">
Communes of the Sarthe department

There are 375 communes in the Sarthe "département", in France.

</doc>
<doc id="148639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148639" title="Aigné">
Aigné

Aigné is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148640" title="Aillières-Beauvoir">
Aillières-Beauvoir

Aillières-Beauvoir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148641" title="Allonnes, Sarthe">
Allonnes, Sarthe

Allonnes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the north west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148642" title="Amné">
Amné

Amné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148643" title="Ancinnes">
Ancinnes

Ancinnes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148644" title="Arçonnay">
Arçonnay

Arçonnay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148645" title="Ardenay-sur-Mérize">
Ardenay-sur-Mérize

Ardenay-sur-Mérize is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148646" title="Arnage, Sarthe">
Arnage, Sarthe

Arnage is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148647" title="Arthezé">
Arthezé

Arthezé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148648" title="Asnières-sur-Vègre">
Asnières-sur-Vègre

Asnières-sur-Vègre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148649" title="Assé-le-Boisne">
Assé-le-Boisne

Assé-le-Boisne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148650" title="Assé-le-Riboul">
Assé-le-Riboul

Assé-le-Riboul is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148651" title="Aubigné-Racan">
Aubigné-Racan

Aubigné-Racan is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148652" title="Auvers-le-Hamon">
Auvers-le-Hamon

Auvers-le-Hamon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148653" title="Auvers-sous-Montfaucon">
Auvers-sous-Montfaucon

Auvers-sous-Montfaucon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148654" title="Avesnes-en-Saosnois">
Avesnes-en-Saosnois

Avesnes-en-Saosnois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148655" title="Avessé">
Avessé

Avessé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148656" title="Avezé">
Avezé

Avezé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148657" title="Avoise">
Avoise

Avoise is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148658" title="Ballon, Sarthe">
Ballon, Sarthe

Ballon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148659" title="Bazouges-sur-le-Loir">
Bazouges-sur-le-Loir

Bazouges-sur-le-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148660" title="Beaufay">
Beaufay

Beaufay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148661" title="Beaumont-Pied-de-Bœuf, Sarthe">
Beaumont-Pied-de-Bœuf, Sarthe

Beaumont-Pied-de-Boeuf is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148662" title="Beaumont-sur-Dême">
Beaumont-sur-Dême

Beaumont-sur-Dême is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148663" title="Beaumont-sur-Sarthe">
Beaumont-sur-Sarthe

Beaumont-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148664" title="Beillé">
Beillé

Beillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148665" title="Berfay">
Berfay

Berfay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148666" title="Bernay-en-Champagne">
Bernay-en-Champagne

Bernay-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148667" title="Bérus">
Bérus

Bérus is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148668" title="Bessé-sur-Braye">
Bessé-sur-Braye

Bessé-sur-Braye is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148669" title="Béthon">
Béthon

Béthon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148670" title="Blèves">
Blèves

Blèves is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148671" title="Boëssé-le-Sec">
Boëssé-le-Sec

Boëssé-le-Sec is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148672" title="Bonnétable">
Bonnétable

Bonnétable is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148673" title="Bouër">
Bouër

Bouër is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148674" title="Bouloire">
Bouloire

Bouloire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148675" title="Bourg-le-Roi">
Bourg-le-Roi

Bourg-le-Roi is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148676" title="Bousse, Sarthe">
Bousse, Sarthe

Bousse is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148677" title="Brains-sur-Gée">
Brains-sur-Gée

Brains-sur-Gée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148678" title="Brette-les-Pins">
Brette-les-Pins

Brette-les-Pins is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148679" title="Briosne-lès-Sables">
Briosne-lès-Sables

Briosne-lès-Sables is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148680" title="Brûlon">
Brûlon

Brûlon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148681" title="Cérans-Foulletourte">
Cérans-Foulletourte

Cérans-Foulletourte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148682" title="Chahaignes">
Chahaignes

Chahaignes is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148683" title="Challes, Sarthe">
Challes, Sarthe

Challes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148684" title="Champagné">
Champagné

Champagné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148685" title="Champfleur">
Champfleur

Champfleur is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148686" title="Champrond">
Champrond

Champrond is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148687" title="Changé, Sarthe">
Changé, Sarthe

Changé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148688" title="Chantenay-Villedieu">
Chantenay-Villedieu

Chantenay-Villedieu is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148689" title="Chassé, Sarthe">
Chassé, Sarthe

Chassé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148690" title="Chassillé">
Chassillé

Chassillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148691" title="Château-du-Loir">
Château-du-Loir

Château-du-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148692" title="Château-l'Hermitage">
Château-l'Hermitage

Château-l'Hermitage is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148693" title="Chaufour-Notre-Dame">
Chaufour-Notre-Dame

Chaufour-Notre-Dame is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148694" title="Chemiré-en-Charnie">
Chemiré-en-Charnie

Chemiré-en-Charnie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148695" title="Chemiré-le-Gaudin">
Chemiré-le-Gaudin

Chemiré-le-Gaudin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148696" title="Chenay, Sarthe">
Chenay, Sarthe

Chenay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148697" title="Chenu, Sarthe">
Chenu, Sarthe

Chenu is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148698" title="Chérancé, Sarthe">
Chérancé, Sarthe

Chérancé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148699" title="Chérisay">
Chérisay

Chérisay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148700" title="Cherré, Sarthe">
Cherré, Sarthe

Cherré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148701" title="Cherreau">
Cherreau

Cherreau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148702" title="Chevillé">
Chevillé

Chevillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148703" title="Clermont-Créans">
Clermont-Créans

Clermont-Créans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148704" title="Cogners">
Cogners

Cogners is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148705" title="Commerveil">
Commerveil

Commerveil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148706" title="Conflans-sur-Anille">
Conflans-sur-Anille

Conflans-sur-Anille is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148707" title="Congé-sur-Orne">
Congé-sur-Orne

Congé-sur-Orne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148708" title="Conlie">
Conlie

Conlie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148709" title="Connerré">
Connerré

Connerré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148710" title="Contilly">
Contilly

Contilly is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148711" title="Cormes">
Cormes

Cormes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148712" title="Coudrecieux">
Coudrecieux

Coudrecieux is a commune; it is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148713" title="Coulaines">
Coulaines

Coulaines is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148714" title="Coulans-sur-Gée">
Coulans-sur-Gée

Coulans-sur-Gée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148715" title="Coulombiers, Sarthe">
Coulombiers, Sarthe

Coulombiers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148716" title="Coulongé">
Coulongé

Coulongé is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148717" title="Courcebœufs">
Courcebœufs

Courcebœufs is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148718" title="Courcelles-la-Forêt">
Courcelles-la-Forêt

Courcelles-la-Forêt is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148719" title="Courcemont">
Courcemont

Courcemont is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148720" title="Courcival">
Courcival

Courcival is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148721" title="Courdemanche, Sarthe">
Courdemanche, Sarthe

Courdemanche is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148722" title="Courgains">
Courgains

Courgains is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148723" title="Courgenard">
Courgenard

Courgenard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148724" title="Courtillers">
Courtillers

Courtillers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148725" title="Crannes-en-Champagne">
Crannes-en-Champagne

Crannes-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148726" title="Cré">
Cré

Cré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148727" title="Crissé">
Crissé

Crissé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148728" title="Crosmières">
Crosmières

Crosmières is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148729" title="Cures, Sarthe">
Cures, Sarthe

Cures is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148730" title="Dangeul">
Dangeul

Dangeul is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148731" title="Degré">
Degré

Degré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148732" title="Dehault">
Dehault

Dehault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148733" title="Dissay-sous-Courcillon">
Dissay-sous-Courcillon

Dissay-sous-Courcillon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148734" title="Dissé-sous-Ballon">
Dissé-sous-Ballon

Dissé-sous-Ballon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148735" title="Dissé-sous-le-Lude">
Dissé-sous-le-Lude

Dissé-sous-le-Lude is a commune. It is in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department. This is in the western part of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148736" title="Dollon">
Dollon

Dollon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148737" title="Domfront-en-Champagne">
Domfront-en-Champagne

Domfront-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148738" title="Doucelles">
Doucelles

Doucelles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148739" title="Douillet">
Douillet

Douillet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148740" title="Duneau">
Duneau

Duneau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148741" title="Dureil">
Dureil

Dureil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148742" title="Écommoy">
Écommoy

Écommoy is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148743" title="Écorpain">
Écorpain

Écorpain is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148744" title="Épineu-le-Chevreuil">
Épineu-le-Chevreuil

Épineu-le-Chevreuil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148745" title="Étival-lès-le-Mans">
Étival-lès-le-Mans

Étival-lès-le-Mans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148746" title="Évaillé">
Évaillé

Évaillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148747" title="Fatines">
Fatines

Fatines is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148748" title="Fay, Sarthe">
Fay, Sarthe

Fay is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148749" title="Fercé-sur-Sarthe">
Fercé-sur-Sarthe

Fercé-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148750" title="Fillé">
Fillé

Fillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148751" title="Flée, Sarthe">
Flée, Sarthe

Flée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148752" title="Fontenay-sur-Vègre">
Fontenay-sur-Vègre

Fontenay-sur-Vègre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148753" title="Fresnay-sur-Sarthe">
Fresnay-sur-Sarthe

Fresnay-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148754" title="Fyé">
Fyé

Fyé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148755" title="Gesnes-le-Gandelin">
Gesnes-le-Gandelin

Gesnes-le-Gandelin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148756" title="Grandchamp, Sarthe">
Grandchamp, Sarthe

Grandchamp is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148757" title="Gréez-sur-Roc">
Gréez-sur-Roc

Gréez-sur-Roc is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148758" title="Guécélard">
Guécélard

Guécélard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148759" title="Jauzé">
Jauzé

Jauzé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148760" title="Joué-en-Charnie">
Joué-en-Charnie

Joué-en-Charnie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148761" title="Joué-l'Abbé">
Joué-l'Abbé

Joué-l'Abbé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148762" title="Juigné-sur-Sarthe">
Juigné-sur-Sarthe

Juigné-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148763" title="Juillé, Sarthe">
Juillé, Sarthe

Juillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148764" title="Jupilles">
Jupilles

Jupilles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148765" title="La Bazoge, Sarthe">
La Bazoge, Sarthe

La Bazoge is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148766" title="La Bosse, Sarthe">
La Bosse, Sarthe

La Bosse is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148767" title="La Bruère-sur-Loir">
La Bruère-sur-Loir

La Bruère-sur-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148768" title="La Chapelle-aux-Choux">
La Chapelle-aux-Choux

La Chapelle-aux-Choux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148769" title="La Chapelle-d'Aligné">
La Chapelle-d'Aligné

La Chapelle-d'Aligné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148770" title="La Chapelle-du-Bois">
La Chapelle-du-Bois

La Chapelle-du-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148771" title="La Chapelle-Gaugain">
La Chapelle-Gaugain

La Chapelle-Gaugain is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148772" title="La Chapelle-Huon">
La Chapelle-Huon

La Chapelle-Huon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148773" title="La Chapelle-Saint-Aubin">
La Chapelle-Saint-Aubin

La Chapelle-Saint-Aubin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148774" title="La Chapelle-Saint-Fray">
La Chapelle-Saint-Fray

La Chapelle-Saint-Fray is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148775" title="La Chapelle-Saint-Rémy">
La Chapelle-Saint-Rémy

La Chapelle-Saint-Rémy is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148776" title="La Chartre-sur-le-Loir">
La Chartre-sur-le-Loir

La Chartre-sur-le-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148777" title="La Ferté-Bernard">
La Ferté-Bernard

La Ferté-Bernard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148778" title="La Flèche">
La Flèche

La Flèche is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148779" title="La Fontaine-Saint-Martin">
La Fontaine-Saint-Martin

La Fontaine-Saint-Martin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148780" title="La Fresnaye-sur-Chédouet">
La Fresnaye-sur-Chédouet

La Fresnaye-sur-Chédouet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148781" title="La Guierche">
La Guierche

La Guierche is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148782" title="La Milesse">
La Milesse

La Milesse is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148783" title="La Quinte">
La Quinte

La Quinte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148784" title="La Suze-sur-Sarthe">
La Suze-sur-Sarthe

La Suze-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148785" title="Laigné-en-Belin">
Laigné-en-Belin

Laigné-en-Belin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148786" title="Lamnay">
Lamnay

Lamnay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148787" title="Lavardin, Sarthe">
Lavardin, Sarthe

Lavardin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148788" title="Lavaré">
Lavaré

Lavaré is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148789" title="Lavenay">
Lavenay

Lavenay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148790" title="Lavernat">
Lavernat

Lavernat is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148791" title="Le Bailleul">
Le Bailleul

Le Bailleul is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148792" title="Le Breil-sur-Mérize">
Le Breil-sur-Mérize

Le Breil-sur-Mérize is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148793" title="Le Chevain">
Le Chevain

Le Chevain is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148794" title="Le Grand-Lucé">
Le Grand-Lucé

Le Grand-Lucé is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148795" title="Le Grez">
Le Grez

Le Grez is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148796" title="Le Luart">
Le Luart

Le Luart is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148797" title="Le Lude">
Le Lude

Le Lude is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148798" title="Le Tronchet, Sarthe">
Le Tronchet, Sarthe

Le Tronchet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148799" title="Les Aulneaux">
Les Aulneaux

Les Aulneaux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148801" title="Les Mées, Sarthe">
Les Mées, Sarthe

Les Mées is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148802" title="Lhomme">
Lhomme

Lhomme is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148803" title="Lignières-la-Carelle">
Lignières-la-Carelle

Lignières-la-Carelle is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148804" title="Ligron">
Ligron

Ligron is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148805" title="Livet-en-Saosnois">
Livet-en-Saosnois

Livet-en-Saosnois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148806" title="Lombron">
Lombron

Lombron is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148807" title="Longnes, Sarthe">
Longnes, Sarthe

Longnes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148808" title="Louailles">
Louailles

Louailles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148809" title="Loué">
Loué

Loué is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148810" title="Louplande">
Louplande

Louplande is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148811" title="Louvigny, Sarthe">
Louvigny, Sarthe

Louvigny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148812" title="Louzes">
Louzes

Louzes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148813" title="Lucé-sous-Ballon">
Lucé-sous-Ballon

Lucé-sous-Ballon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148814" title="Luceau">
Luceau

Luceau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148815" title="Luché-Pringé">
Luché-Pringé

Luché-Pringé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148816" title="Maigné">
Maigné

Maigné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148817" title="Maisoncelles, Sarthe">
Maisoncelles, Sarthe

Maisoncelles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148818" title="Malicorne-sur-Sarthe">
Malicorne-sur-Sarthe

Malicorne-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148819" title="Mamers">
Mamers

Mamers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148820" title="Mansigné">
Mansigné

Mansigné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148821" title="Marçon">
Marçon

Marçon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148822" title="Mareil-en-Champagne">
Mareil-en-Champagne

Mareil-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148823" title="Mareil-sur-Loir">
Mareil-sur-Loir

Mareil-sur-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148824" title="Maresché">
Maresché

Maresché is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148825" title="Marigné-Laillé">
Marigné-Laillé

Marigné-Laillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148826" title="Marolles-les-Braults">
Marolles-les-Braults

Marolles-les-Braults is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148827" title="Marolles-lès-Saint-Calais">
Marolles-lès-Saint-Calais

Marolles-lès-Saint-Calais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148828" title="Marollette">
Marollette

Marollette is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148829" title="Mayet">
Mayet

Mayet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148830" title="Melleray, Sarthe">
Melleray, Sarthe

Melleray is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148831" title="Meurcé">
Meurcé

Meurcé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148832" title="Mézeray, Sarthe">
Mézeray, Sarthe

Mézeray is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148833" title="Mézières-sous-Lavardin">
Mézières-sous-Lavardin

Mézières-sous-Lavardin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148834" title="Mézières-sur-Ponthouin">
Mézières-sur-Ponthouin

Mézières-sur-Ponthouin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148835" title="Moitron-sur-Sarthe">
Moitron-sur-Sarthe

Moitron-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148836" title="Moncé-en-Belin">
Moncé-en-Belin

Moncé-en-Belin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148837" title="Moncé-en-Saosnois">
Moncé-en-Saosnois

Moncé-en-Saosnois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148838" title="Monhoudou">
Monhoudou

Monhoudou is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148839" title="Mont-Saint-Jean, Sarthe">
Mont-Saint-Jean, Sarthe

Mont-Saint-Jean is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148840" title="Montabon">
Montabon

Montabon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148841" title="Montaillé">
Montaillé

Montaillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148842" title="Montbizot">
Montbizot

Montbizot is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148843" title="Montfort-le-Gesnois">
Montfort-le-Gesnois

Montfort-le-Gesnois is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148844" title="Montigny, Sarthe">
Montigny, Sarthe

Montigny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148845" title="Montmirail, Sarthe">
Montmirail, Sarthe

Montmirail is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148846" title="Montreuil-le-Chétif">
Montreuil-le-Chétif

Montreuil-le-Chétif is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148847" title="Montreuil-le-Henri">
Montreuil-le-Henri

Montreuil-le-Henri is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148848" title="Moulins-le-Carbonnel">
Moulins-le-Carbonnel

Moulins-le-Carbonnel is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148849" title="Mulsanne">
Mulsanne

Mulsanne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148850" title="Nauvay">
Nauvay

Nauvay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148851" title="Neufchâtel-en-Saosnois">
Neufchâtel-en-Saosnois

Neufchâtel-en-Saosnois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148852" title="Neuvillalais">
Neuvillalais

Neuvillalais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148853" title="Neuville-sur-Sarthe">
Neuville-sur-Sarthe

Neuville-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148854" title="Neuvillette-en-Charnie">
Neuvillette-en-Charnie

Neuvillette-en-Charnie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148855" title="Neuvy-en-Champagne">
Neuvy-en-Champagne

Neuvy-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148856" title="Nogent-le-Bernard">
Nogent-le-Bernard

Nogent-le-Bernard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148857" title="Nogent-sur-Loir">
Nogent-sur-Loir

Nogent-sur-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148858" title="Notre-Dame-du-Pé">
Notre-Dame-du-Pé

Notre-Dame-du-Pé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148859" title="Nouans">
Nouans

Nouans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148860" title="Noyen-sur-Sarthe">
Noyen-sur-Sarthe

Noyen-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148861" title="Nuillé-le-Jalais">
Nuillé-le-Jalais

Nuillé-le-Jalais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148862" title="Oisseau-le-Petit">
Oisseau-le-Petit

Oisseau-le-Petit is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148863" title="Oizé">
Oizé

Oizé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148864" title="Panon, Sarthe">
Panon, Sarthe

Panon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148865" title="Parcé-sur-Sarthe">
Parcé-sur-Sarthe

Parcé-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148866" title="Parennes">
Parennes

Parennes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148867" title="Parigné-l'Évêque">
Parigné-l'Évêque

Parigné-l'Évêque is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148868" title="Parigné-le-Pôlin">
Parigné-le-Pôlin

Parigné-le-Pôlin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148869" title="Peray">
Peray

Peray is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148870" title="Pezé-le-Robert">
Pezé-le-Robert

Pezé-le-Robert is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148871" title="Piacé">
Piacé

Piacé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148872" title="Pincé">
Pincé

Pincé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148873" title="Pirmil">
Pirmil

Pirmil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.
Here is a graph showing how this commune's population went up or down:

</doc>
<doc id="148874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148874" title="Pizieux">
Pizieux

Pizieux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148875" title="Poillé-sur-Vègre">
Poillé-sur-Vègre

Poillé-sur-Vègre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148876" title="Poncé-sur-le-Loir">
Poncé-sur-le-Loir

Poncé-sur-le-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148877" title="Pontvallain">
Pontvallain

Pontvallain is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148878" title="Précigné">
Précigné

Précigné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148879" title="Préval">
Préval

Préval is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148880" title="Prévelles">
Prévelles

Prévelles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148881" title="Pruillé-l'Éguillé">
Pruillé-l'Éguillé

Pruillé-l'Éguillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148882" title="Pruillé-le-Chétif">
Pruillé-le-Chétif

Pruillé-le-Chétif is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148883" title="Rahay">
Rahay

Rahay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148884" title="René, Sarthe">
René, Sarthe

René is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148885" title="Requeil">
Requeil

Requeil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148886" title="Roézé-sur-Sarthe">
Roézé-sur-Sarthe

Roézé-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148887" title="Rouessé-Fontaine">
Rouessé-Fontaine

Rouessé-Fontaine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148888" title="Rouessé-Vassé">
Rouessé-Vassé

Rouessé-Vassé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148889" title="Rouez">
Rouez

Rouez is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148890" title="Rouillon">
Rouillon

Rouillon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148891" title="Roullée">
Roullée

Roullée is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148892" title="Rouperroux-le-Coquet">
Rouperroux-le-Coquet

Rouperroux-le-Coquet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148893" title="Ruaudin">
Ruaudin

Ruaudin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148894" title="Ruillé-en-Champagne">
Ruillé-en-Champagne

Ruillé-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148895" title="Ruillé-sur-Loir">
Ruillé-sur-Loir

Ruillé-sur-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148896" title="Sablé-sur-Sarthe">
Sablé-sur-Sarthe

Sablé-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148897" title="Saint-Aignan, Sarthe">
Saint-Aignan, Sarthe

Saint-Aignan is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148898" title="Saint-Aubin-de-Locquenay">
Saint-Aubin-de-Locquenay

Saint-Aubin-de-Locquenay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148899" title="Saint-Aubin-des-Coudrais">
Saint-Aubin-des-Coudrais

Saint-Aubin-des-Coudrais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148900" title="Saint-Biez-en-Belin">
Saint-Biez-en-Belin

Saint-Biez-en-Belin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148901" title="Saint-Calais">
Saint-Calais

Saint-Calais is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148902" title="Saint-Calez-en-Saosnois">
Saint-Calez-en-Saosnois

Saint-Calez-en-Saosnois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148903" title="Saint-Célerin">
Saint-Célerin

Saint-Célerin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148904" title="Saint-Christophe-du-Jambet">
Saint-Christophe-du-Jambet

Saint-Christophe-du-Jambet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148905" title="Saint-Christophe-en-Champagne">
Saint-Christophe-en-Champagne

Saint-Christophe-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148906" title="Saint-Corneille">
Saint-Corneille

Saint-Corneille is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148907" title="Saint-Cosme-en-Vairais">
Saint-Cosme-en-Vairais

Saint-Cosme-en-Vairais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France. There were 1,957 people living there in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="148908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148908" title="Saint-Denis-d'Orques">
Saint-Denis-d'Orques

Saint-Denis-d'Orques is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148909" title="Saint-Denis-des-Coudrais">
Saint-Denis-des-Coudrais

Saint-Denis-des-Coudrais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148910" title="Saint-Georges-de-la-Couée">
Saint-Georges-de-la-Couée

Saint-Georges-de-la-Couée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148911" title="Saint-Georges-du-Bois, Sarthe">
Saint-Georges-du-Bois, Sarthe

Saint-Georges-du-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148912" title="Saint-Georges-du-Rosay">
Saint-Georges-du-Rosay

Saint-Georges-du-Rosay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148913" title="Saint-Georges-le-Gaultier">
Saint-Georges-le-Gaultier

Saint-Georges-le-Gaultier is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148914" title="Saint-Germain-d'Arcé">
Saint-Germain-d'Arcé

Saint-Germain-d'Arcé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148915" title="Saint-Germain-sur-Sarthe">
Saint-Germain-sur-Sarthe

Saint-Germain-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148916" title="Saint-Gervais-de-Vic">
Saint-Gervais-de-Vic

Saint-Gervais-de-Vic is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148917" title="Saint-Gervais-en-Belin">
Saint-Gervais-en-Belin

Saint-Gervais-en-Belin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148918" title="Saint-Hilaire-le-Lierru">
Saint-Hilaire-le-Lierru

Saint-Hilaire-le-Lierru is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France. The commune is 70 to 120 meters above sea-level
The figure below shows the evolution of the population:

</doc>
<doc id="148919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148919" title="Saint-Jean-d'Assé">
Saint-Jean-d'Assé

Saint-Jean-d'Assé is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148921" title="Saint-Jean-de-la-Motte">
Saint-Jean-de-la-Motte

Saint-Jean-de-la-Motte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148922" title="Saint-Jean-des-Échelles">
Saint-Jean-des-Échelles

Saint-Jean-des-Échelles is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148923" title="Saint-Jean-du-Bois">
Saint-Jean-du-Bois

Saint-Jean-du-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148924" title="Saint-Léonard-des-Bois">
Saint-Léonard-des-Bois

Saint-Léonard-des-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148925" title="Saint-Longis">
Saint-Longis

Saint-Longis is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148926" title="Saint-Maixent">
Saint-Maixent

Saint-Maixent is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148927" title="Saint-Marceau, Sarthe">
Saint-Marceau, Sarthe

Saint-Marceau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148928" title="Saint-Mars-d'Outillé">
Saint-Mars-d'Outillé

Saint-Mars-d'Outillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148929" title="Saint-Mars-de-Locquenay">
Saint-Mars-de-Locquenay

Saint-Mars-de-Locquenay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148930" title="Saint-Mars-la-Brière">
Saint-Mars-la-Brière

Saint-Mars-la-Brière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148931" title="Saint-Mars-sous-Ballon">
Saint-Mars-sous-Ballon

Saint-Mars-sous-Ballon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148932" title="Saint-Martin-des-Monts">
Saint-Martin-des-Monts

Saint-Martin-des-Monts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148933" title="Saint-Michel-de-Chavaignes">
Saint-Michel-de-Chavaignes

Saint-Michel-de-Chavaignes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148934" title="Saint-Ouen-de-Mimbré">
Saint-Ouen-de-Mimbré

Saint-Ouen-de-Mimbré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148935" title="Saint-Ouen-en-Belin">
Saint-Ouen-en-Belin

Saint-Ouen-en-Belin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148936" title="Saint-Ouen-en-Champagne">
Saint-Ouen-en-Champagne

Saint-Ouen-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148937" title="Saint-Paterne">
Saint-Paterne

Saint-Paterne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148938" title="Saint-Paul-le-Gaultier">
Saint-Paul-le-Gaultier

Saint-Paul-le-Gaultier is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148939" title="Saint-Pavace">
Saint-Pavace

Saint-Pavace is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148940" title="Saint-Pierre-de-Chevillé">
Saint-Pierre-de-Chevillé

Saint-Pierre-de-Chevillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148941" title="Saint-Pierre-des-Bois">
Saint-Pierre-des-Bois

Saint-Pierre-des-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148942" title="Saint-Pierre-des-Ormes">
Saint-Pierre-des-Ormes

Saint-Pierre-des-Ormes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148943" title="Saint-Pierre-du-Lorouër">
Saint-Pierre-du-Lorouër

Saint-Pierre-du-Lorouër is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148944" title="Saint-Rémy-de-Sillé">
Saint-Rémy-de-Sillé

Saint-Rémy-de-Sillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148945" title="Saint-Rémy-des-Monts">
Saint-Rémy-des-Monts

Saint-Rémy-des-Monts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148946" title="Saint-Rémy-du-Val">
Saint-Rémy-du-Val

Saint-Rémy-du-Val is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148947" title="Saint-Rigomer-des-Bois">
Saint-Rigomer-des-Bois

Saint-Rigomer-des-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148948" title="Saint-Saturnin, Sarthe">
Saint-Saturnin, Sarthe

Saint-Saturnin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148949" title="Saint-Symphorien, Sarthe">
Saint-Symphorien, Sarthe

Saint-Symphorien is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148950" title="Saint-Ulphace">
Saint-Ulphace

Saint-Ulphace is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148951" title="Saint-Victeur">
Saint-Victeur

Saint-Victeur is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148952" title="Saint-Vincent-des-Prés, Sarthe">
Saint-Vincent-des-Prés, Sarthe

Saint-Vincent-des-Prés is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148953" title="Saint-Vincent-du-Lorouër">
Saint-Vincent-du-Lorouër

Saint-Vincent-du-Lorouër is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148954" title="Sainte-Cérotte">
Sainte-Cérotte

Sainte-Cérotte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148955" title="Sainte-Jamme-sur-Sarthe">
Sainte-Jamme-sur-Sarthe

Sainte-Jamme-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148956" title="Sainte-Osmane">
Sainte-Osmane

Sainte-Osmane is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148957" title="Sainte-Sabine-sur-Longève">
Sainte-Sabine-sur-Longève

Sainte-Sabine-sur-Longève is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148958" title="Saosnes">
Saosnes

Saosnes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148959" title="Sarcé">
Sarcé

Sarcé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148960" title="Sargé-lès-le-Mans">
Sargé-lès-le-Mans

Sargé-lès-le-Mans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148961" title="Savigné-l'Évêque">
Savigné-l'Évêque

Savigné-l'Évêque is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148962" title="Savigné-sous-le-Lude">
Savigné-sous-le-Lude

Savigné-sous-le-Lude is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148963" title="Sceaux-sur-Huisne">
Sceaux-sur-Huisne

Sceaux-sur-Huisne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148964" title="Ségrie">
Ségrie

Ségrie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148965" title="Semur-en-Vallon">
Semur-en-Vallon

Semur-en-Vallon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148966" title="Sillé-le-Guillaume">
Sillé-le-Guillaume

Sillé-le-Guillaume is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148967" title="Sillé-le-Philippe">
Sillé-le-Philippe

Sillé-le-Philippe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148968" title="Solesmes, Sarthe">
Solesmes, Sarthe

Solesmes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148969" title="Sougé-le-Ganelon">
Sougé-le-Ganelon

Sougé-le-Ganelon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148970" title="Souillé">
Souillé

Souillé is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148971" title="Souligné-Flacé">
Souligné-Flacé

Souligné-Flacé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148972" title="Souligné-sous-Ballon">
Souligné-sous-Ballon

Souligné-sous-Ballon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148973" title="Soulitré">
Soulitré

Soulitré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148974" title="Souvigné-sur-Même">
Souvigné-sur-Même

Souvigné-sur-Même is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148975" title="Souvigné-sur-Sarthe">
Souvigné-sur-Sarthe

Souvigné-sur-Sarthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148976" title="Spay, Sarthe">
Spay, Sarthe

Spay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148977" title="Surfonds">
Surfonds

Surfonds is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148978" title="Tassé">
Tassé

Tassé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148979" title="Tassillé">
Tassillé

Tassillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148980" title="Teillé, Sarthe">
Teillé, Sarthe

Teillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148981" title="Teloché">
Teloché

Teloché is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148982" title="Tennie">
Tennie

Tennie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148983" title="Terrehault">
Terrehault

Terrehault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148984" title="Théligny">
Théligny

Théligny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148985" title="Thoigné">
Thoigné

Thoigné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148986" title="Thoiré-sous-Contensor">
Thoiré-sous-Contensor

Thoiré-sous-Contensor is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148987" title="Thoiré-sur-Dinan">
Thoiré-sur-Dinan

Thoiré-sur-Dinan is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148988" title="Thorée-les-Pins">
Thorée-les-Pins

Thorée-les-Pins is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148989" title="Thorigné-sur-Dué">
Thorigné-sur-Dué

Thorigné-sur-Dué is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148990" title="Torcé-en-Vallée">
Torcé-en-Vallée

Torcé-en-Vallée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148991" title="Trangé">
Trangé

Trangé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148992" title="Tresson">
Tresson

Tresson is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148993" title="Tuffé">
Tuffé

Tuffé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148994" title="Vaas, Sarthe">
Vaas, Sarthe

Vaas is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148995" title="Valennes">
Valennes

Valennes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148996" title="Vallon-sur-Gée">
Vallon-sur-Gée

Vallon-sur-Gée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148997" title="Vancé">
Vancé

Vancé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148998" title="Verneil-le-Chétif">
Verneil-le-Chétif

Verneil-le-Chétif is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="148999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148999" title="Vernie">
Vernie

Vernie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149000" title="Vezot">
Vezot

Vezot is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149001" title="Vibraye">
Vibraye

Vibraye is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149002" title="Villaines-la-Carelle">
Villaines-la-Carelle

Villaines-la-Carelle is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France. In 2007, 175 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="149003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149003" title="Villaines-la-Gonais">
Villaines-la-Gonais

Villaines-la-Gonais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149004" title="Villaines-sous-Lucé">
Villaines-sous-Lucé

Villaines-sous-Lucé is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149005" title="Villaines-sous-Malicorne">
Villaines-sous-Malicorne

Villaines-sous-Malicorne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149006" title="Vion, Sarthe">
Vion, Sarthe

Vion is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149007" title="Viré-en-Champagne">
Viré-en-Champagne

Viré-en-Champagne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149008" title="Vivoin">
Vivoin

Vivoin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149009" title="Voivres-lès-le-Mans">
Voivres-lès-le-Mans

Voivres-lès-le-Mans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149010" title="Volnay, Sarthe">
Volnay, Sarthe

Volnay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149011" title="Vouvray-sur-Huisne">
Vouvray-sur-Huisne

Vouvray-sur-Huisne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149012" title="Vouvray-sur-Loir">
Vouvray-sur-Loir

Vouvray-sur-Loir is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149013" title="Yvré-l'Évêque">
Yvré-l'Évêque

Yvré-l'Évêque is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149014" title="Yvré-le-Pôlin">
Yvré-le-Pôlin

Yvré-le-Pôlin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Sarthe department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149015" title="Communes of the Vendée department">
Communes of the Vendée department

There are 282 communes in the Vendée "département", in France.

</doc>
<doc id="149016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149016" title="Category:Communes in Vendée">
Category:Communes in Vendée


</doc>
<doc id="149017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149017" title="Aizenay">
Aizenay

Aizenay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149018" title="Angles, Vendée">
Angles, Vendée

Angles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149019" title="Antigny, Vendée">
Antigny, Vendée

Antigny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149020" title="Apremont, Vendée">
Apremont, Vendée

Apremont is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149021" title="Aubigny, Vendée">
Aubigny, Vendée

Aubigny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149022" title="Auzay">
Auzay

Auzay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149023" title="Avrillé, Vendée">
Avrillé, Vendée

Avrillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149024" title="Barbâtre">
Barbâtre

Barbâtre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149025" title="Bazoges-en-Paillers">
Bazoges-en-Paillers

Bazoges-en-Paillers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149026" title="Bazoges-en-Pareds">
Bazoges-en-Pareds

Bazoges-en-Pareds is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149027" title="Beaufou">
Beaufou

Beaufou is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149028" title="Beaulieu-sous-la-Roche">
Beaulieu-sous-la-Roche

Beaulieu-sous-la-Roche is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149029" title="Beaurepaire, Vendée">
Beaurepaire, Vendée

Beaurepaire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149030" title="Beauvoir-sur-Mer">
Beauvoir-sur-Mer

Beauvoir-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149031" title="Belleville-sur-Vie">
Belleville-sur-Vie

Belleville-sur-Vie is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149032" title="Benet, Vendée">
Benet, Vendée

Benet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149033" title="Bessay">
Bessay

Bessay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149034" title="Bois-de-Céné">
Bois-de-Céné

Bois-de-Céné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149035" title="Boufféré">
Boufféré

Boufféré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149036" title="Bouillé-Courdault">
Bouillé-Courdault

Bouillé-Courdault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149037" title="Bouin, Vendée">
Bouin, Vendée

Bouin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149038" title="Boulogne, Vendée">
Boulogne, Vendée

Boulogne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149039" title="Bourneau">
Bourneau

Bourneau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149040" title="Bournezeau">
Bournezeau

Bournezeau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149041" title="Brem-sur-Mer">
Brem-sur-Mer

Brem-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149042" title="Bretignolles-sur-Mer">
Bretignolles-sur-Mer

Bretignolles-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149043" title="Breuil-Barret">
Breuil-Barret

Breuil-Barret is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149044" title="Cezais">
Cezais

Cezais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149045" title="Chaillé-les-Marais">
Chaillé-les-Marais

Chaillé-les-Marais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149046" title="Chaillé-sous-les-Ormeaux">
Chaillé-sous-les-Ormeaux

Chaillé-sous-les-Ormeaux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149047" title="Chaix">
Chaix

Chaix is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149048" title="Challans">
Challans

Challans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149049" title="Chambretaud">
Chambretaud

Chambretaud is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149050" title="Champagné-les-Marais">
Champagné-les-Marais

Champagné-les-Marais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149051" title="Chantonnay">
Chantonnay

Chantonnay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149052" title="Chasnais">
Chasnais

Chasnais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149053" title="Château-d'Olonne">
Château-d'Olonne

Château-d'Olonne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149054" title="Château-Guibert">
Château-Guibert

Château-Guibert is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149055" title="Châteauneuf, Vendée">
Châteauneuf, Vendée

Châteauneuf is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149056" title="Chauché">
Chauché

Chauché is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149057" title="Chavagnes-en-Paillers">
Chavagnes-en-Paillers

Chavagnes-en-Paillers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149058" title="Chavagnes-les-Redoux">
Chavagnes-les-Redoux

Chavagnes-les-Redoux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149059" title="Cheffois">
Cheffois

Cheffois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149060" title="Coëx">
Coëx

Coëx is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149061" title="Commequiers">
Commequiers

Commequiers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149062" title="Corpe">
Corpe

Corpe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149063" title="Cugand">
Cugand

Cugand is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149064" title="Curzon, Vendée">
Curzon, Vendée

Curzon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149065" title="Damvix">
Damvix

Damvix is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149066" title="Doix">
Doix

Doix is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149067" title="Dompierre-sur-Yon">
Dompierre-sur-Yon

Dompierre-sur-Yon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149068" title="Falleron">
Falleron

Falleron is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149069" title="Faymoreau">
Faymoreau

Faymoreau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149070" title="Fontaines, Vendée">
Fontaines, Vendée

Fontaines is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149071" title="Fontenay-le-Comte">
Fontenay-le-Comte

Fontenay-le-Comte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149072" title="Fougeré, Vendée">
Fougeré, Vendée

Fougeré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149073" title="Foussais-Payré">
Foussais-Payré

Foussais-Payré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149074" title="Froidfond">
Froidfond

Froidfond is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149075" title="Givrand">
Givrand

Givrand is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149076" title="Grand'Landes">
Grand'Landes

Grand'Landes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149077" title="Grosbreuil">
Grosbreuil

Grosbreuil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149078" title="Grues, Vendée">
Grues, Vendée

Grues is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149079" title="L'Île d'Yeu">
L'Île d'Yeu

L'Île d'Yeu is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149080" title="Jard-sur-Mer">
Jard-sur-Mer

Jard-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149081" title="L'Aiguillon-sur-Mer">
L'Aiguillon-sur-Mer

L'Aiguillon-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149082" title="L'Aiguillon-sur-Vie">
L'Aiguillon-sur-Vie

L'Aiguillon-sur-Vie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149083" title="L'Épine, Vendée">
L'Épine, Vendée

L'Épine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149084" title="L'Herbergement">
L'Herbergement

L'Herbergement is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149085" title="L'Hermenault">
L'Hermenault

L'Hermenault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149086" title="L'Île-d'Elle">
L'Île-d'Elle

L'Île-d'Elle is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149087" title="L'Île-d'Olonne">
L'Île-d'Olonne

L'Île-d'Olonne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149088" title="L'Oie">
L'Oie

L'Oie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149089" title="L'Orbrie">
L'Orbrie

L'Orbrie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149090" title="La Barre-de-Monts">
La Barre-de-Monts

La Barre-de-Monts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149091" title="La Bernardière">
La Bernardière

La Bernardière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149092" title="La Boissière-de-Montaigu">
La Boissière-de-Montaigu

La Boissière-de-Montaigu is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149093" title="La Boissière-des-Landes">
La Boissière-des-Landes

La Boissière-des-Landes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149094" title="La Bretonnière-la-Claye">
La Bretonnière-la-Claye

La Bretonnière-la-Claye is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149095" title="La Bruffière">
La Bruffière

La Bruffière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149096" title="La Caillère-Saint-Hilaire">
La Caillère-Saint-Hilaire

La Caillère-Saint-Hilaire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149097" title="La Chaize-Giraud">
La Chaize-Giraud

La Chaize-Giraud is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149098" title="La Chaize-le-Vicomte">
La Chaize-le-Vicomte

La Chaize-le-Vicomte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149099" title="La Chapelle-Achard">
La Chapelle-Achard

La Chapelle-Achard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149100" title="La Chapelle-aux-Lys">
La Chapelle-aux-Lys

La Chapelle-aux-Lys is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149101" title="La Chapelle-Hermier">
La Chapelle-Hermier

La Chapelle-Hermier is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149102" title="La Chapelle-Palluau">
La Chapelle-Palluau

La Chapelle-Palluau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149103" title="La Chapelle-Thémer">
La Chapelle-Thémer

La Chapelle-Thémer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149104" title="La Châtaigneraie">
La Châtaigneraie

La Châtaigneraie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149105" title="La Copechagnière">
La Copechagnière

La Copechagnière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149106" title="La Couture, Vendée">
La Couture, Vendée

La Couture is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149107" title="La Faute-sur-Mer">
La Faute-sur-Mer

La Faute-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149108" title="La Ferrière, Vendée">
La Ferrière, Vendée

La Ferrière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149109" title="La Flocellière">
La Flocellière

La Flocellière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149110" title="La Garnache">
La Garnache

La Garnache is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149111" title="La Gaubretière">
La Gaubretière

La Gaubretière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149112" title="La Génétouze">
La Génétouze

La Génétouze is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149113" title="La Guérinière">
La Guérinière

La Guérinière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149114" title="La Guyonnière">
La Guyonnière

La Guyonnière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149115" title="La Jaudonnière">
La Jaudonnière

La Jaudonnière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149116" title="La Jonchère">
La Jonchère

La Jonchère is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149117" title="La Meilleraie-Tillay">
La Meilleraie-Tillay

La Meilleraie-Tillay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149118" title="La Merlatière">
La Merlatière

La Merlatière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149119" title="La Mothe-Achard">
La Mothe-Achard

La Mothe-Achard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149120" title="La Pommeraie-sur-Sèvre">
La Pommeraie-sur-Sèvre

La Pommeraie-sur-Sèvre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149121" title="La Rabatelière">
La Rabatelière

La Rabatelière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149122" title="La Réorthe">
La Réorthe

La Réorthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149123" title="La Roche-sur-Yon">
La Roche-sur-Yon

La Roche-sur-Yon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149124" title="La Taillée">
La Taillée

La Taillée is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149125" title="La Tardière">
La Tardière

La Tardière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149126" title="La Tranche-sur-Mer">
La Tranche-sur-Mer

La Tranche-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149127" title="La Verrie">
La Verrie

La Verrie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149128" title="Lairoux">
Lairoux

Lairoux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149129" title="Landeronde">
Landeronde

Landeronde is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149130" title="Landevieille">
Landevieille

Landevieille is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149131" title="Le Bernard">
Le Bernard

Le Bernard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149132" title="Le Boupère">
Le Boupère

Le Boupère is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149133" title="Le Champ-Saint-Père">
Le Champ-Saint-Père

Le Champ-Saint-Père is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149134" title="Le Fenouiller">
Le Fenouiller

Le Fenouiller is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149135" title="Le Girouard">
Le Girouard

Le Girouard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149136" title="Le Givre">
Le Givre

Le Givre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149137" title="Le Gué-de-Velluire">
Le Gué-de-Velluire

Le Gué-de-Velluire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149138" title="Le Langon">
Le Langon

Le Langon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149139" title="Le Mazeau">
Le Mazeau

Le Mazeau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149140" title="Le Perrier">
Le Perrier

Le Perrier is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149141" title="Le Poiré-sur-Velluire">
Le Poiré-sur-Velluire

Le Poiré-sur-Velluire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149142" title="Le Poiré-sur-Vie">
Le Poiré-sur-Vie

Le Poiré-sur-Vie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149143" title="Le Tablier">
Le Tablier

Le Tablier is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149144" title="Les Brouzils">
Les Brouzils

Les Brouzils is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149145" title="Les Châtelliers-Châteaumur">
Les Châtelliers-Châteaumur

Les Châtelliers-Châteaumur is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149146" title="Les Clouzeaux">
Les Clouzeaux

Les Clouzeaux is a commune. It is in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department. It is in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149147" title="Les Epesses">
Les Epesses

Les Epesses is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149148" title="Les Essarts, Vendée">
Les Essarts, Vendée

Les Essarts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149149" title="Les Herbiers">
Les Herbiers

Les Herbiers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149150" title="Les Landes-Genusson">
Les Landes-Genusson

Les Landes-Genusson is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149151" title="Les Lucs-sur-Boulogne">
Les Lucs-sur-Boulogne

Les Lucs-sur-Boulogne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149152" title="Les Magnils-Reigniers">
Les Magnils-Reigniers

Les Magnils-Reigniers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149153" title="Les Pineaux">
Les Pineaux

Les Pineaux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149154" title="Les Sables-d'Olonne">
Les Sables-d'Olonne

Les Sables-d'Olonne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149155" title="Liez, Vendée">
Liez, Vendée

Liez is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149156" title="Loge-Fougereuse">
Loge-Fougereuse

Loge-Fougereuse is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149157" title="Longèves, Vendée">
Longèves, Vendée

Longèves is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149158" title="Longeville-sur-Mer">
Longeville-sur-Mer

Longeville-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149159" title="Luçon">
Luçon

Luçon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149160" title="Maché">
Maché

Maché is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149161" title="Maillé, Vendée">
Maillé, Vendée

Maillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149162" title="Maillezais">
Maillezais

Maillezais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149163" title="Mallièvre">
Mallièvre

Mallièvre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149164" title="Mareuil-sur-Lay-Dissais">
Mareuil-sur-Lay-Dissais

Mareuil-sur-Lay-Dissais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149165" title="Marillet">
Marillet

Marillet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149166" title="Marsais-Sainte-Radégonde">
Marsais-Sainte-Radégonde

Marsais-Sainte-Radégonde is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149167" title="Martinet">
Martinet

Martinet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149168" title="Menomblet">
Menomblet

Menomblet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149169" title="Mervent">
Mervent

Mervent is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149170" title="Mesnard-la-Barotière">
Mesnard-la-Barotière

Mesnard-la-Barotière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149171" title="Monsireigne">
Monsireigne

Monsireigne is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149172" title="Montaigu, Vendée">
Montaigu, Vendée

Montaigu is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149173" title="Montournais">
Montournais

Montournais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149174" title="Montreuil, Vendée">
Montreuil, Vendée

Montreuil is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149175" title="Moreilles">
Moreilles

Moreilles is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149176" title="Mormaison">
Mormaison

Mormaison is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149177" title="Mortagne-sur-Sèvre">
Mortagne-sur-Sèvre

Mortagne-sur-Sèvre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149178" title="Mouchamps">
Mouchamps

Mouchamps is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149179" title="Mouilleron-en-Pareds">
Mouilleron-en-Pareds

Mouilleron-en-Pareds is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149180" title="Mouilleron-le-Captif">
Mouilleron-le-Captif

Mouilleron-le-Captif is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149181" title="Moutiers-les-Mauxfaits">
Moutiers-les-Mauxfaits

Moutiers-les-Mauxfaits is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149182" title="Moutiers-sur-le-Lay">
Moutiers-sur-le-Lay

Moutiers-sur-le-Lay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149183" title="Mouzeuil-Saint-Martin">
Mouzeuil-Saint-Martin

Mouzeuil-Saint-Martin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149184" title="Nalliers, Vendée">
Nalliers, Vendée

Nalliers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149185" title="Nesmy">
Nesmy

Nesmy is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149186" title="Nieul-le-Dolent">
Nieul-le-Dolent

Nieul-le-Dolent is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149187" title="Nieul-sur-l'Autise">
Nieul-sur-l'Autise

Nieul-sur-l'Autise is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149188" title="Noirmoutier-en-l'Île">
Noirmoutier-en-l'Île

Noirmoutier-en-l'Île is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149189" title="Notre-Dame-de-Monts">
Notre-Dame-de-Monts

Notre-Dame-de-Monts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149190" title="Notre-Dame-de-Riez">
Notre-Dame-de-Riez

Notre-Dame-de-Riez is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149191" title="Olonne-sur-Mer">
Olonne-sur-Mer

Olonne-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149192" title="Oulmes">
Oulmes

Oulmes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149193" title="Palluau">
Palluau

Palluau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149194" title="Péault">
Péault

Péault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149195" title="Petosse">
Petosse

Petosse is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149196" title="Pissotte">
Pissotte

Pissotte is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149197" title="Poiroux">
Poiroux

Poiroux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149198" title="Pouillé, Vendée">
Pouillé, Vendée

Pouillé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149199" title="Pouzauges">
Pouzauges

Pouzauges is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149200" title="Puy-de-Serre">
Puy-de-Serre

Puy-de-Serre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149201" title="Puyravault, Vendée">
Puyravault, Vendée

Puyravault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149202" title="Réaumur, Vendée">
Réaumur, Vendée

Réaumur is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149203" title="Rocheservière">
Rocheservière

Rocheservière is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149204" title="Rochetrejoux">
Rochetrejoux

Rochetrejoux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149205" title="Rosnay, Vendée">
Rosnay, Vendée

Rosnay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149206" title="Saint-André-Goule-d'Oie">
Saint-André-Goule-d'Oie

Saint-André-Goule-d'Oie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149207" title="Saint-André-Treize-Voies">
Saint-André-Treize-Voies

Saint-André-Treize-Voies is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149208" title="Saint-Aubin-des-Ormeaux">
Saint-Aubin-des-Ormeaux

Saint-Aubin-des-Ormeaux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149209" title="Saint-Aubin-la-Plaine">
Saint-Aubin-la-Plaine

Saint-Aubin-la-Plaine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149210" title="Saint-Avaugourd-des-Landes">
Saint-Avaugourd-des-Landes

Saint-Avaugourd-des-Landes is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149211" title="Saint-Benoist-sur-Mer">
Saint-Benoist-sur-Mer

Saint-Benoist-sur-Mer is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149212" title="Saint-Christophe-du-Ligneron">
Saint-Christophe-du-Ligneron

Saint-Christophe-du-Ligneron is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149213" title="Saint-Cyr-des-Gâts">
Saint-Cyr-des-Gâts

Saint-Cyr-des-Gâts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149214" title="Saint-Cyr-en-Talmondais">
Saint-Cyr-en-Talmondais

Saint-Cyr-en-Talmondais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149215" title="Saint-Denis-du-Payré">
Saint-Denis-du-Payré

Saint-Denis-du-Payré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149216" title="Saint-Denis-la-Chevasse">
Saint-Denis-la-Chevasse

Saint-Denis-la-Chevasse is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149217" title="Saint-Étienne-de-Brillouet">
Saint-Étienne-de-Brillouet

Saint-Étienne-de-Brillouet is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149218" title="Saint-Étienne-du-Bois, Vendée">
Saint-Étienne-du-Bois, Vendée

Saint-Étienne-du-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149219" title="Saint-Florent-des-Bois">
Saint-Florent-des-Bois

Saint-Florent-des-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149220" title="Saint-Fulgent">
Saint-Fulgent

Saint-Fulgent is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149221" title="Saint-Georges-de-Montaigu">
Saint-Georges-de-Montaigu

Saint-Georges-de-Montaigu is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149222" title="Saint-Georges-de-Pointindoux">
Saint-Georges-de-Pointindoux

Saint-Georges-de-Pointindoux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149223" title="Saint-Germain-de-Prinçay">
Saint-Germain-de-Prinçay

Saint-Germain-de-Prinçay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149224" title="Saint-Germain-l'Aiguiller">
Saint-Germain-l'Aiguiller

Saint-Germain-l'Aiguiller is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149225" title="Saint-Gervais, Vendée">
Saint-Gervais, Vendée

Saint-Gervais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149226" title="Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie">
Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie

Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149227" title="Saint-Hilaire-de-Loulay">
Saint-Hilaire-de-Loulay

Saint-Hilaire-de-Loulay is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.
It is the chilhood home of Thierry Rautureau The Chef In The Hat!!! Owner of Rover's Restaurant in Seattle, Washington in the Northwest Region of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="149228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149228" title="Saint-Hilaire-de-Riez">
Saint-Hilaire-de-Riez

Saint-Hilaire-de-Riez is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149229" title="Saint-Hilaire-de-Voust">
Saint-Hilaire-de-Voust

Saint-Hilaire-de-Voust is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149230" title="Saint-Hilaire-des-Loges">
Saint-Hilaire-des-Loges

Saint-Hilaire-des-Loges is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149231" title="Saint-Hilaire-la-Forêt">
Saint-Hilaire-la-Forêt

Saint-Hilaire-la-Forêt is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149232" title="Saint-Hilaire-le-Vouhis">
Saint-Hilaire-le-Vouhis

Saint-Hilaire-le-Vouhis is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149233" title="Saint-Jean-de-Beugné">
Saint-Jean-de-Beugné

Saint-Jean-de-Beugné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149234" title="Saint-Jean-de-Monts">
Saint-Jean-de-Monts

Saint-Jean-de-Monts is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149235" title="Saint-Juire-Champgillon">
Saint-Juire-Champgillon

Saint-Juire-Champgillon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149236" title="Saint-Julien-des-Landes">
Saint-Julien-des-Landes

Saint-Julien-des-Landes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149237" title="Saint-Laurent-de-la-Salle">
Saint-Laurent-de-la-Salle

Saint-Laurent-de-la-Salle is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149238" title="Saint-Laurent-sur-Sèvre">
Saint-Laurent-sur-Sèvre

Saint-Laurent-sur-Sèvre is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149239" title="Saint-Maixent-sur-Vie">
Saint-Maixent-sur-Vie

Saint-Maixent-sur-Vie is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149240" title="Saint-Malô-du-Bois">
Saint-Malô-du-Bois

Saint-Malô-du-Bois is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149241" title="Saint-Mars-la-Réorthe">
Saint-Mars-la-Réorthe

Saint-Mars-la-Réorthe is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149242" title="Saint-Martin-de-Fraigneau">
Saint-Martin-de-Fraigneau

Saint-Martin-de-Fraigneau is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149243" title="Saint-Martin-des-Fontaines">
Saint-Martin-des-Fontaines

Saint-Martin-des-Fontaines is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149244" title="Saint-Martin-des-Noyers">
Saint-Martin-des-Noyers

Saint-Martin-des-Noyers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149245" title="Saint-Martin-des-Tilleuls">
Saint-Martin-des-Tilleuls

Saint-Martin-des-Tilleuls is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149246" title="Saint-Martin-Lars-en-Sainte-Hermine">
Saint-Martin-Lars-en-Sainte-Hermine

Saint-Martin-Lars-en-Sainte-Hermine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149247" title="Saint-Mathurin">
Saint-Mathurin

Saint-Mathurin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149248" title="Saint-Maurice-des-Noues">
Saint-Maurice-des-Noues

Saint-Maurice-des-Noues is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149249" title="Saint-Maurice-le-Girard">
Saint-Maurice-le-Girard

Saint-Maurice-le-Girard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149250" title="Saint-Mesmin, Vendée">
Saint-Mesmin, Vendée

Saint-Mesmin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149251" title="Saint-Michel-en-l'Herm">
Saint-Michel-en-l'Herm

Saint-Michel-en-l'Herm is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149252" title="Saint-Michel-le-Cloucq">
Saint-Michel-le-Cloucq

Saint-Michel-le-Cloucq is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149253" title="Saint-Michel-Mont-Mercure">
Saint-Michel-Mont-Mercure

Saint-Michel-Mont-Mercure is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149254" title="Saint-Paul-en-Pareds">
Saint-Paul-en-Pareds

Saint-Paul-en-Pareds is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149255" title="Saint-Paul-Mont-Penit">
Saint-Paul-Mont-Penit

Saint-Paul-Mont-Penit is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149256" title="Saint-Philbert-de-Bouaine">
Saint-Philbert-de-Bouaine

Saint-Philbert-de-Bouaine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149257" title="Saint-Pierre-du-Chemin">
Saint-Pierre-du-Chemin

Saint-Pierre-du-Chemin is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149258" title="Saint-Pierre-le-Vieux, Vendée">
Saint-Pierre-le-Vieux, Vendée

Saint-Pierre-le-Vieux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149259" title="Saint-Prouant">
Saint-Prouant

Saint-Prouant is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149260" title="Saint-Révérend">
Saint-Révérend

Saint-Révérend is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149261" title="Saint-Sigismond, Vendée">
Saint-Sigismond, Vendée

Saint-Sigismond is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149262" title="Saint-Sulpice-en-Pareds">
Saint-Sulpice-en-Pareds

Saint-Sulpice-en-Pareds is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149263" title="Saint-Sulpice-le-Verdon">
Saint-Sulpice-le-Verdon

Saint-Sulpice-le-Verdon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149264" title="Saint-Urbain, Vendée">
Saint-Urbain, Vendée

Saint-Urbain is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149265" title="Saint-Valérien, Vendée">
Saint-Valérien, Vendée

Saint-Valérien is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149266" title="Saint-Vincent-Sterlanges">
Saint-Vincent-Sterlanges

Saint-Vincent-Sterlanges is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149267" title="Saint-Vincent-sur-Graon">
Saint-Vincent-sur-Graon

Saint-Vincent-sur-Graon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149268" title="Saint-Vincent-sur-Jard">
Saint-Vincent-sur-Jard

Saint-Vincent-sur-Jard is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149269" title="Sainte-Cécile, Vendée">
Sainte-Cécile, Vendée

Sainte-Cécile is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149270" title="Sainte-Flaive-des-Loups">
Sainte-Flaive-des-Loups

Sainte-Flaive-des-Loups is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149271" title="Sainte-Florence, Vendée">
Sainte-Florence, Vendée

Sainte-Florence is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149272" title="Sainte-Foy, Vendée">
Sainte-Foy, Vendée

Sainte-Foy is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149273" title="Sainte-Gemme-la-Plaine">
Sainte-Gemme-la-Plaine

Sainte-Gemme-la-Plaine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149274" title="Sainte-Hermine">
Sainte-Hermine

Sainte-Hermine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149275" title="Sainte-Pexine">
Sainte-Pexine

Sainte-Pexine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149276" title="Sainte-Radégonde-des-Noyers">
Sainte-Radégonde-des-Noyers

Sainte-Radégonde-des-Noyers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149277" title="Saligny, Vendée">
Saligny, Vendée

Saligny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149278" title="Sallertaine">
Sallertaine

Sallertaine is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149279" title="Sérigné">
Sérigné

Sérigné is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149280" title="Sigournais">
Sigournais

Sigournais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149281" title="Soullans">
Soullans

Soullans is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149282" title="Tallud-Sainte-Gemme">
Tallud-Sainte-Gemme

Tallud-Sainte-Gemme is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149283" title="Talmont-Saint-Hilaire">
Talmont-Saint-Hilaire

Talmont-Saint-Hilaire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149284" title="Thiré">
Thiré

Thiré is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149285" title="Thorigny">
Thorigny

Thorigny is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149286" title="Thouarsais-Bouildroux">
Thouarsais-Bouildroux

Thouarsais-Bouildroux is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149287" title="Tiffauges">
Tiffauges

Tiffauges is a commune. It is found in the Pays de la Loire region in the Vendée department in the west of France. Gilles de Rais had his castle here.

</doc>
<doc id="149288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149288" title="Treize-Septiers">
Treize-Septiers

Treize-Septiers is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149289" title="Treize-Vents">
Treize-Vents

Treize-Vents is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149290" title="Triaize">
Triaize

Triaize is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149291" title="Vairé">
Vairé

Vairé is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149292" title="Velluire">
Velluire

Velluire is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149293" title="Venansault">
Venansault

Venansault is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149294" title="Vendrennes">
Vendrennes

Vendrennes is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149295" title="Vix, Vendée">
Vix, Vendée

Vix is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149296" title="Vouillé-les-Marais">
Vouillé-les-Marais

Vouillé-les-Marais is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149297" title="Vouvant">
Vouvant

Vouvant is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149298" title="Xanton-Chassenon">
Xanton-Chassenon

Xanton-Chassenon is a commune. It is found in the region Pays de la Loire in the Vendée department in the west of France.

</doc>
<doc id="149303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149303" title="Umberto I of Italy">
Umberto I of Italy

Umberto I (14 March 1844 – 29 July 1900) was King of Italy from 1878 through 1900.

</doc>
<doc id="149345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149345" title="Chiojdu">
Chiojdu

Chiojdu () is a commune of Buzău County in Romania. 

</doc>
<doc id="149349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149349" title="Cislău">
Cislău

Cislău is a commune of Buzău County in Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149358" title="Nehoiu">
Nehoiu

Nehoiu is a town of Buzău County in Romania. The population of Nehoiu is 11,639 people.

</doc>
<doc id="149360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149360" title="Amaru, Buzău">
Amaru, Buzău

Amaru is a rural municipality of Buzău County in Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149361" title="Bălăceanu">
Bălăceanu

Bălăceanu is a rural municipality of Buzău County in Romania. 

</doc>
<doc id="149423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149423" title="Hamilton, Alabama">
Hamilton, Alabama

Hamilton is a city in Marion County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 6,786. The city is the county seat of Marion County.

</doc>
<doc id="149424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149424" title="Hueytown, Alabama">
Hueytown, Alabama

Hueytown is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States and a suburb of Birmingham near Bessemer. At the 2000 census the population was 15,364.

</doc>
<doc id="149425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149425" title="Haleyville, Alabama">
Haleyville, Alabama

Haleyville is a city in Marion and Winston Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. At the 2000 census the population was 4,182.

</doc>
<doc id="149426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149426" title="Hanceville, Alabama">
Hanceville, Alabama

Hanceville is a city in Cullman County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,951.

</doc>
<doc id="149429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149429" title="Hartford, Alabama">
Hartford, Alabama

Hartford is a city in Geneva County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Dothan, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2000 census the population was 2,369.

</doc>
<doc id="149438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149438" title="Heflin, Alabama">
Heflin, Alabama

Heflin is a city in Cleburne County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 3,002. The city is the county seat of Cleburne County.
Heflin was first settled in 1882 as a station on the railroad line from Atlanta. The town quickly grew and was incorported in 1886. Edwardsville was the county seat until 1905. In an election the county decided to move the county seat to Heflin.

</doc>
<doc id="149439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149439" title="Headland, Alabama">
Headland, Alabama

Headland is a city in Henry County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Dothan, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2000 census the population was 3,523.

</doc>
<doc id="149440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149440" title="Hartselle, Alabama">
Hartselle, Alabama

Hartselle is the second largest city in Morgan County, Alabama, about 10 miles (16 km) south of Decatur, and is included in the Decatur Metropolitan Area, and the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2006 census estimates, the population of the city is 13,479.

</doc>
<doc id="149443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149443" title="Homewood, Alabama">
Homewood, Alabama

Homewood is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. It is a suburb of Birmingham, on the other side of Red Mountain due south of the city center, but also has one of the highest population densities in Alabama. As of 2005 Census Bureau estimates, the population of the city is 23,963.

</doc>
<doc id="149444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149444" title="Hokes Bluff, Alabama">
Hokes Bluff, Alabama

Hokes Bluff is a city in Etowah County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Gadsden Metropolitan Statistical Area. About 4,100 people were living in Hokes Bluff as of 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="149445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149445" title="Helena, Alabama">
Helena, Alabama

Helena is a city in Jefferson and Shelby Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama.

</doc>
<doc id="149447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149447" title="M40 motorway">
M40 motorway

The M40 motorway is a motorway between Denham, near London and Solihull near Birmingham in the United Kingdom. It was built in stages between 1967 and 1991 and is 89 miles long.

</doc>
<doc id="149451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149451" title="Adâncata, Suceava">
Adâncata, Suceava

Adâncata is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149452" title="Arbore">
Arbore

Arbore is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149453" title="Baia">
Baia

Baia is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149454" title="Bălăceana">
Bălăceana

Bălăceana is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149455" title="Bălcăuţi">
Bălcăuţi

Bălcăuţi is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149456" title="Bilca">
Bilca

Bilca is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149457" title="Bogdăneşti, Suceava">
Bogdăneşti, Suceava

Bogdăneşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149458" title="Boroaia">
Boroaia

Boroaia is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149459" title="Bosanci, Suceava">
Bosanci, Suceava

Bosanci is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149460" title="Botoşana">
Botoşana

Botoşana is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149461" title="Breaza, Suceava">
Breaza, Suceava

Breaza is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149462" title="Brodina">
Brodina

Brodina is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149463" title="Buneşti, Suceava">
Buneşti, Suceava

Buneşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149464" title="Burla, Suceava">
Burla, Suceava

Burla is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149465" title="Cacica">
Cacica

Cacica is a commune in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149466" title="Calafindeşti">
Calafindeşti

Calafindeşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149467" title="Capu Câmpului">
Capu Câmpului

Capu Câmpului is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149468" title="Cârlibaba">
Cârlibaba

Cârlibaba is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149469" title="Ciocăneşti, Suceava">
Ciocăneşti, Suceava

Ciocăneşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149470" title="Ciprian Porumbescu, Suceava">
Ciprian Porumbescu, Suceava

Ciprian Porumbescu is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149471" title="Comăneşti, Suceava">
Comăneşti, Suceava

Comăneşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149472" title="Cornu Luncii">
Cornu Luncii

Cornu Luncii is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149473" title="Coşna">
Coşna

Coşna is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149474" title="Crucea, Suceava">
Crucea, Suceava

Crucea is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149475" title="Dărmăneşti, Suceava">
Dărmăneşti, Suceava

Dărmăneşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania. It is in the valleys of the Trotuş and Uz rivers.

</doc>
<doc id="149476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149476" title="Dolheşti, Suceava">
Dolheşti, Suceava

Dolheşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149477" title="Dorna-Arini">
Dorna-Arini

Dorna-Arini is a commune in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149478" title="Dorna Candrenilor">
Dorna Candrenilor

Dorna Candrenilor is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149479" title="Dorneşti">
Dorneşti

Dorneşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
<doc id="149480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149480" title="Drăgoieşti">
Drăgoieşti

Drăgoieşti is a commune found in Suceava County, Romania.

</doc>
