<doc id="536097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536097" title="Federalism in the United States">
Federalism in the United States

Federalism in the United States is the relationship between the state governments and the federal government. This relationship is set out in the United States Constitution. The Constitution says which powers the federal government has, and which powers belong to the states. The goal of federalism is to create a balance of power, so neither the states or the federal government can get too powerful.
When America was a colony of the British Empire, it was ruled by the government of King George III. Many American colonists thought this government was corrupt and did not care about the colonists' rights.
The Founding Fathers of the United States started to believe in an idea they called republicanism. This idea said that the people in a country should be able to choose their government. It said that the government's job was to protect people's natural rights, and if the government did not do this, the people had the right to overthrow it. By 1775, these ideas were common in colonial America.
In the 1760s and 1770s, the British government began passing laws that forced the colonists to pay taxes on items like printed materials and things that were made outside the colonies. To many Americans, these were examples of corruption and unfairness in the government. The government was making them pay taxes, but the colonists had no say in what tax laws were passed, or even what their money was spent on.
In 1775, the American Revolutionary War began. The next year, the colonies passed the United States Declaration of Independence, making them the new country of the United States. By 1783, thanks to help from France, Spain, and some Native American tribes, the United States won the war and its independence from the British Empire.
However, British rule had made most Americans distrust federal governments. Many Americans did not like the thought that people far away from them could make rules about their lives, like the British government had. They saw government as the biggest threat to their freedom. Because of this, the United States' first constitution, the Articles of Confederation, gave most of the power to the states. The Articles created a federal government, but gave it very little power. For example, the Articles allowed the Continental Congress to sign treaties and declare war, but it could not raise taxes to pay for an army. Also, all major decisions required all of the state governments to agree. This made it very difficult for the federal government to get anything done.
The Founding Fathers and regular Americans began to see that the Confederation government was not working well. Some of the Founding Fathers began to suggest federalism as a solution to the problems with the Articles of Confederation.
Many more Americans began to support federalism after Shays' Rebellion of 1786-1787. Shays' Rebellion started out as a protest by poor farmers in western Massachusetts, and ended up as an armed rebellion. Neither the federal government or the state government had enough soldiers or money to pay for an army that could stop the rebellion. Merchants in Massachusetts had to pay for a private army to stop the rebellion. Also, during the Rebellion, Massachusetts' state government took away people's right to habeas corpus (so they could keep people in jail without a trial) and their right to say bad things about the government. Many Americans began to realize that under the Articles of Confederation, their government was unable to protect them or their rights. This was not the republican government they had fought for.
In 1787, fifty-five delegates met at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. There, they created ideas about a new type of government, called federalism. In this type of government, they decided:
The delegates at the Constitutional Convention wrote a new Constitution. The last part of the Constitution, Article 7, said that nine states would have to ratify (approve) the Constitution for it to go into effect. The Federalist movement started working to get the Constitution ratified.
Some of the Founding Fathers argued strongly for federalism, especially James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and John Jay. They created the strongest defense of the new Constitution in a book called "The Federalist" Papers. This was a collection of 85 essays supporting federalism. Its goal was to convince people to vote to ratify the Constitution. Although they were published anonymously at the time (with nobody's real names listed), the essays were written by Madison, Hamilton, and Jay. The essays explained the new Constitution and all the protections in it. It answered many of the arguments against federalism, and explained how the Constitution would help protect people's rights. For example, in "Federalist No. 10," James Madison wrote that federalism would help protect the republican values most Americans supported, like the importance of personal freedoms.
People who did not support the new Constitution were called "Anti-Federalists". The Anti-Federalists included Founding Fathers like Patrick Henry and George Mason. They worried that under the new Constitution, the federal government was too strong, and had too much power over the states. They wanted the states to have more power. They also did not like the fact that the Constitution had no bill of rights. Without a bill of rights, they worried that the federal government would take their rights away.
After the Federalists promised to add a bill of rights to the Constitution after it was ratified, and after George Washington said he supported the new Constitution, the states ratified the Constitution.
The new Constitution took effect on March 4, 1789. That same year, Congress wrote and proposed twelve amendments to the Constitution. Three-fourths of the states would have to ratify these amendments in order to add them to the Constitution. The states ratified ten amendments on December 15, 1791. Together, they became the Bill of Rights. The Tenth Amendment set the guidelines for federalism in the United States. It said that any powers that the Constitution did not give to the federal government belonged to the states. This was meant to calm people's worries that the federal government would try to take more and more power from the states.

</doc>
<doc id="536100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536100" title="Roger Agnelli">
Roger Agnelli

Roger Agnelli (May 3, 1959 – March 19, 2016) was a Brazilian entrepreneur, banker, and corporate leader. He ran one of the largest mining companies in the world, Vale SA. In 2013, he was voted by Harvard Business Review as the world’s fourth best-performing chief executive officer behind Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs, Jeff Bezos of Amazon.com and Yun Jong-Yong of Samsung. 
On March 19, 2016, he was killed, along with his wife, son, and daughter (and three others) when their plane crashed in São Paulo, Brazil. He was aged 56.

</doc>
<doc id="536101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536101" title="Category:People from Incheon">
Category:People from Incheon


</doc>
<doc id="536102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536102" title="Dušan Čkrebić">
Dušan Čkrebić

Dušan Čkrebić (born 7 August 1927) is a Serbian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Serbia. He served as minister from 5 May 1984 through 5 May 1986. He was a member of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia.
Čkrebić was born in Niš, Serbia.

</doc>
<doc id="536105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536105" title="Niš">
Niš

Niš is the city of southern Serbia. It is the third-largest city in Serbia (after Belgrade and Novi Sad). 
It is the administrative center of the Nišava District. According to the 2011 census, the city has population of 183,164. The city center has 187,544 people living there and the administrative area has a population of 260,237.

</doc>
<doc id="536107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536107" title="Sikiru Adesina">
Sikiru Adesina

Sikiru Adesina (born 1971, died February 8, 2016), popularly known as Arakangudu, was a Nigerian movie actor, director and producer. He was best known for playing roles as either an herbalist, armed robber or occultist in movies. On February 8, 2016, he died at his residence in Kaduna, Northern Nigeria.

</doc>
<doc id="536136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536136" title="United States Reports">
United States Reports

United States Reports are the official record of all the cases that the United States Supreme Court has heard. 
The United States Reports include many types of information, like:
In the United States, when lawyers want to talk or write about a Supreme Court decision, they cite the "United States Reports". For example, the case "Brown, et al., v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas", is cited this way:
This tells the lawyer that the decision of the Court in the case entitled "Brown v. Board of Education" (as properly abbreviated), decided in 1954, can be found in volume 347 of the United States Reports, starting on page 483.

</doc>
<doc id="536138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536138" title="Joseph Mercieca">
Joseph Mercieca

Joseph Mercieca (, 11 November 1928 – 21 March 2016) was a Maltese prelate. He served as Archbishop of Malta from 1976 to 2006. He was born in Gozo, Malta. He was known for restoring stability in the Maltese church following his predecessor Mikiel Gonzi's dispute with the Malta Labour Party.
Mercieca died in his home in Żejtun, Malta after a long-illness on 21 March 2016. He was aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="536139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536139" title="Léonie Geisendorf">
Léonie Geisendorf

Léonie Geisendorf, née Kaplan (8 April 1914 – 18 March 2016), was a Polish-born Swedish architect. She lived and worked in Stockholm, Sweden most of her life. 
Geisendorf was born in Warsaw, Poland. She studied architecture at Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich. 
In 1938, after her internship, Geisendorf moved to Sweden and was hired by Sven Ivar Lind, KFAI and Paul Hedqvist. In 1950 Geisendorf and her husband, Charles Edouard started their own office in Stockholm. She was known for creating the S:t Göran high school. She turned 100 in April 2014. Geisendorf died in Paris, France at the age of 101.

</doc>
<doc id="536140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536140" title="Salmonidae">
Salmonidae

The Salmonidae is a family of ray-finned fish. They are the only living family in the order Salmoniformes. It includes salmon, trout, chars, graylings, and the subfamily known as the freshwater whitefish.
The Atlantic salmon and trout in the genus "Salmo" give the family and order their names.
Salmonids look rather primitive for teleost fish. Their pelvic fins are placed far back, with an adipose fin towards the rear of the back. They are slender fish, with rounded scales and forked tails. Their mouths contain a single row of sharp teeth. Although the smallest species is just long as an adult, most are much larger, with the largest reaching .
All salmonids spawn in fresh water. In many cases the fish spend most of their lives at sea, returning to the rivers only to reproduce. This a migratory lifecycle. They are predators, feeding on small crustaceans, aquatic insects, and smaller fish.

</doc>
<doc id="536154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536154" title="Robert J. Healey">
Robert J. Healey

Robert John "Bob" Healey, Jr. (May 3, 1957 – March 20, 2016) was an American attorney, businessman, educator, restaurateur, and political activist. He was the founder of Rhode Island's Cool Moose Party. It is the state's third-largest political party from 1994 until 2002. He has been a perennial candidate for statewide office. 
Healey has run for Governor or Lieutenant Governor a total of seven times. He ran as an independent candidate in 2010, he won 39% of the vote for Lieutenant Governor. He wanted to abolish the office. As the Moderate Party nominee for Governor in 2014, Healey won 22% of the vote while spending less than $40 on the campaign.
Healey was found dead in his bed at his home in Barrington, Rhode Island on March 20, 2016. He is believed to have died from a suspected heart attack in his sleep. He was aged 58.

</doc>
<doc id="536156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536156" title="Flag of California">
Flag of California

The official flag of the state of California is known as the Bear Flag. An earlier version of the flag was first flown during the 1846 Bear Flag Revolt and was also known as the Bear Flag.

</doc>
<doc id="536157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536157" title="Korematsu v. United States">
Korematsu v. United States

Korematsu v. United States , was a landmark United States Supreme Court. It concerned the constitutionality of military commanders, under an executive order by the President, which ordered Japanese Americans into internment camps during World War II. This was regardless of their citizenship. In February of 1942, President Franklin Roosevelt issued Executive Order No. 9066. This gave military commanders the power to evacuate all persons considered a threat to national security from the West Coast of the United States to relocation centers. Fred Korematsu, a Japanese-American who was born in the United States, refused to comply with the order. He became a fugitive, but was arrested and sentenced to five years probation. He appealed his conviction with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. After having his conviction upheld, the case was heard by the U.S. Supreme Court. In a 6-3 decision, the Court upheld his conviction and ruled the exclusion order was constitutional.
The question before the Court was did the President and Congress exceed their powers. Did they violate the rights of Japanese and American citizens of Japanese descent?
In the majority opinion by Justice Hugo Black, the Court ruled 6-9 that the need to protect the country from 
espionage outweighed the rights of Mr. Korematsu. The issue of discrimination against a person due to prejudice against his ancestry is not a factor. Neither is there any question of his loyalty to the United States. The sole issue is his refusal to comply with a legal order during a time of war.
On May 19, 1942, during World War II, Japanese Americans were ordered to be move into relocation camps by Civilian Restrictive Order No. 1, 8 Fed. Reg. 982. This order, and other similar orders, were based upon Executive Order 9066 (February 19, 1942). Fred Korematsu was a Japanese-American man who decided to stay in San Leandro, California and knowingly violated Civilian Exclusion Order No. 34 of the U.S. Army. Korematsu argued that the Executive Order 9066 was unconstitutional and that it violated the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. He was arrested, tried and convicted. No question was raised as to Korematsu's loyalty to the United States. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction, and the Supreme Court granted "certiorari."
The decision in "Korematsu v. United States" has been very controversial. Korematsu's conviction for evading internment was overturned in 1983. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1998 from President Bill Clinton.

</doc>
<doc id="536159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536159" title="Lunar mare">
Lunar mare

Mare is the name for a great plain on the moon. Several such maria exist. They are of volcanic origin, and appear darker than the highlands around them.

</doc>
<doc id="536165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536165" title="Aérospatiale SN-601 Corvette">
Aérospatiale SN-601 Corvette

The Aérospatiale SN-601 Corvette is a French twin-turbojet aircraft. It was the only one business jet built by Aérospatiale. It can carry two pilots and between 6 and 14 passengers.

</doc>
<doc id="536167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536167" title="Embraer Emb-202 Ipanema">
Embraer Emb-202 Ipanema

The Embraer Emb-202 Ipanema is Brazilian civilian aircraft. It's used for crop dusting.

</doc>
<doc id="536168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536168" title="Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health">
Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health

Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health, , was a United States Supreme Court case. It had to do with the right to die. Nancy Cruzan was a woman who was in a persistent vegetative state. Her family wanted to stop life support treatments so she could die. Hospital workers refused to do this without a court order. Eventually, the case made it to the Supreme Court. On June 25, 1990, the Court decided it was legal to require "clear and convincing evidence" that stopping life support is what a person would have wanted.
On January 11, 1983, Nancy Cruzan's car ran off the road. She landed 35 feet away, face-down in a ditch filled with water. When paramedics arrived, her heart had stopped and she was not breathing. The paramedics resuscitated her, but her brain was damaged by not having enough oxygen. The brain damage caused a persistent vegetative state. 
Doctors put a feeding tube into her stomach so food and water could be given through the tube. Without the feeding tube, Cruzan would die from starvation or dehydration, because she could not swallow anything.
In 1988, Cruzan's parents asked her doctors to stop feeding her through the feeding tube. They believed Nancy would not have wanted to live in a persistent vegetative state. She had recently told a friend that if she got badly injured or sick, she would not want to live unless she could live "at least halfway normally." Nancy's parents wanted her to be able to die. However, the hospital refused to take out the feeding tube without a court order.
The Cruzans asked a trial court to order the hospital to remove Nancy's feeding tube. The trial court agreed. 
The court said that a person has a "fundamental natural right" in the Constitution to have someone make the decision to remove life support "when the person has no more cognitive brain function ... and there is no hope of further recovery." The court said Nancy's conversation with her friend showed that she would not want to live in a persistent vegetative state.
The state of Missouri appealed this decision. The case went to the Supreme Court of Missouri, which reversed the trial court's decision. The Supreme Court of Missouri ruled that no one can refuse treatment for another person, unless:
The United States Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal of the Missouri Supreme Court's decision. This was the first "right to die" case that the United States Supreme Court had ever heard. 
The Cruzan case divided the Supreme Court. Five of the Supreme Court Justices (judges) wrote their own opinions about the case. Four disagreed with the decision the Court made. However, the Court ruled, in a 5-4 vote, that the Supreme Court of Missouri made the right decision. They ruled that Missouri did not violate the Constitution when it required 'clear and convincing evidence' that Nancy would have wanted her life support to be ended.
The U.S. Supreme Court did rule that competent people (people who are able to make decisions for themselves) have the right to refuse medical treatment. They said the Constitution gives competent people this right in the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 
However, it said things are different for people who are incompetent (people who cannot not make decisions for themselves for example, because they are in a persistent vegetative state). If another person wants to refuse treatment for someone who is incompetent, they have to show "clear and convincing proof" that refusing treatment is what the person would want.
 After the Supreme Court's decision, the Cruzans went back to the first trial court with new evidence. The court ruled that the Cruzans now had clear and convincing evidence that Nancy would have wanted her life support ended if she was in a persistent vegetative state. On December 14, 1990, Nancy's feeding tube was taken out. 
Protesters filed seven different petitions with the court to try to get Nancy's feeding tube put back in, but the court refused. Then, on December 18, nineteen people went into Nancy's hospital room and tried to reattach her feeding tube themselves; they were arrested. 
Nancy Cruzan died on December 26, 1990. She had been in a persistent vegetative state for eight years.
At Nancy's funeral, her father told reporters: "I would prefer to have my daughter back and let someone else be this trailblazer." Six years later, he killed himself.
The "Cruzan" case is one of the most important "right to die" cases in United States history. It set precedents that courts would follow in many cases in the future.
The case also made many Americans interested in writing living wills and other advance directives (documents that tell doctors and family members what they want in certain medical situations, if they cannot make decisions for themselves).

</doc>
<doc id="536185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536185" title="Adam Darski">
Adam Darski

Adam Nergal Darski (sometimes just called Nergal; born Adam Michał Darski; 10 June 1977 in Gdynia, Poland) is a Polish musician and celebrity who is best known for being in the black/death metal band Behemoth. He is the vocalist for Behemoth and plays the guitar, bass, synthesizer and drums.
Darski was born Adam Michał Darski in Gdynia, Poland. He was raised Catholic and began to play the guitar at age eight. He likes to call himself Nergal (which comes from Babylonia mythology and is the god of plague and war). He founded the band Behemoth while he was just a teenager in 1991. Darski also is the main lyricist, composer and manager of the band. For a brief time, he called himself Holocausto, which was inspired by Beherit leader Nuclear Holocausto. He was a member of a band called Wolverine, which showed his skills at clean singing.
He was inspired by Norway's Black Circle, so he formed together with Blasphemous (from the band Veles) and Venom (from Xantotol) and called themselves the Temple of Infernal Fire. Later other bands joined and far-right politics were introduced, and the group renamed the Temple of Fullmoon. Darski didn't want to be involved with politics, so he distanced himself from the group. This led to some members of the group accusing him of betrayal. Some members even sent him death threats. He says that he is now in good terms with the members.
Darski has completed six years of history at the University of Gdańsk. He is qualified to be a museum curator.
In March of 2010, Darski got in legal trouble and was faced with blasphemy charges after he publicly condemned religion and ripped a Bible up on stage in 2007. Darski claimed that he did it to enhance his live performance, and didn't mean to offend anyone. He also said that he believes freedom of speech should come before religion in Poland. Darski faced up to two years in prison for ripping up the Bible, but the charges were dropped on 28 June 2010.
In 2011, he became a judge on season one of The Voice of Poland.
In July 2012, Nergal became the newest spokesman for Demon Energy drinks that would be sold all throughout Poland. Nergal appeared in his full Behemoth attire on the front of four different flavors of the Demon Energy brand next to the brand's slogan of "No Limits, No Laws". Darski reportedly donated all of the money he earned for his placement to one of the world's best bone marrow donor centers.
In October 2012, he got into legal troubles again over the ripped up Bible incident in 2007. The Supreme Court said that Darski could be guilty of the crime of “offending religious feelings” even though he did not mean to. The case was returned to a lower court which found him guilty of “intentionally insulting the Holy Bible” but the case was dismissed because of to the statute of limitations.
Darski dated the famous Polish pop singer, Dorota Rabczewska, from mid-2009 to early 2011. They even engaged during those years, but on 17 March 2011, the media claimed that they had called off the engagement and broken up.
Since 2014, Darski has been the co-owner of a barbershop in Warsaw, Poland. In 2015 he opened a second barber shop in Warsaw and bar in Sopot.
Darski was rushed to the hospital on 8 August 2010 for unknown reasons. All upcoming Behemoth live shows were cancelled. On 24 August 2010, Darski was diagnosed with leukemia. The illness was thought to have advanced far enough to make chemotherapy useless, but these reports have since been proven false. His then-fiancée offered to donate her marrow, but his marrow didn't match. On 8 November 2010, Darski found a genetic bone marrow match, and he then underwent treatment to receive a bone marrow transplant. He was let out of the hospital on 16 January 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="536194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536194" title="Category:2007 births">
Category:2007 births


</doc>
<doc id="536200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536200" title="Karaite">
Karaite

The words Karaite and Qaraite are very confusing and can be used about a few different things: 
1) There are some groups of people (whose ancestors came from Central Asia) who have been called Karaite people and the languages of some of these groups of people have also been called Karaite languages. Their ancestors were a type of Christian from the Church of the East sometimes also called Keraites. Many Karaite people say that the word Karaite means "black" in the Turco-Mongol language of their ancestors. That is a traditional Central Asian way to say they were originally from the Northern Turkic tribes. 
2) There are also Qaraite people who are mainly Turkic and related to the Karaite people but the Qaraite people mainly converted to Islam. Most people say their name also means "black" but some of these Qaraite people themselves say their name actually comes from an Arabic word for someone good at reading the Quran.
3) There is also a type of Judaism commonly called Karaite Judaism. More accurately it should be spelled in English with a Q not a K, so it should be Qaraite, but Karaite is a more common spelling. In Judaism the word Karaite comes from a Hebrew word meaning "to call out". This Jewish word has a completely different origin from the name used by the Karaite people and Qaraite people. Both words look the same by accident only in English. People who practice Karaite Judaism are called Karaite Jews. In Judaism the term Karaite Language refers to Hebrew. 
4) Some Russian Christians -including some of the western groups of the Karaite people- took many ideas from Karaite Judaism but they did not completely give up on Jesus. They became Russian Sabbatarians. They are also called Russian Karaites and Karaite Sabbatarians but there is a big argument about why they are called Karaite. Is it because of their religion? Or is it because some of them descended from the Karaite people or Qaraite people? It seems impossible to know.

</doc>
<doc id="536202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536202" title="Valproate">
Valproate

Valproate (also known as Depakote or valproic acid) is a drug. It is mostly used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder. It is also used to prevent migraines. It is useful to prevent some kinds of seizures. It can be given intravenously or by mouth.
Common side effects of this medication are sleepiness, dry mouth, weakness, vomiting and nausea. Serious side effects can include liver problems, pancreatitis and an increased suicide risk.
Valproate (the generic name for Depakote) was first used in 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="536203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536203" title="Somnolence">
Somnolence

Somnolence (also sleepiness or drowsiness) is a strong desire for sleep. It is also sleeping for unusually long periods. It can refer to the usual state before falling asleep. It can be accompanied by lethargy, weakness and difficulty thinking.
Sleepiness can be dangerous when performing tasks that require constant concentration, such as driving a vehicle.

</doc>
<doc id="536212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536212" title="Category:2000s establishments in Illinois">
Category:2000s establishments in Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="536219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536219" title="2016 Brussels bombings">
2016 Brussels bombings

On 22 March 2016, three large explosions happened in the Belgian capital Brussels. Two bombs exploded at Brussels Zaventem Airport and one exploded at Maalbeek metro station. According to the Belgian Health Ministry, there have been at least 31 confirmed deaths and over 250 reported injuries. Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has publicly claimed responsibility for the attack. There are three suspects. Two were suicide bombers and Belgian police are currently searching for the third one.
Belgium is part of the war on ISIL in Iraq. About 500 foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq are Belgian. The fighters mostly come from immigrant families.
Belgium has been under attacks in the past. In May 2014, a gunman attacked the Jewish Museum of Belgium, killing four people. In January 2015, Security men stopped a group maybe planned a second "Charlie Hebdo" shooting. The operation resulted in the deaths of two members of the group. In August 2015, a man shot and stabbed people on a train in Brussels, before being stopped by passengers.
The attackers that were part of the November 2015 Paris attacks were based in Molenbeek, and the city of Brussels was closed for five days to search for people. On 18 March 2016, Salah Abdeslam, who possibly was part of the Paris attacks, was caught, and at least one other suspect is still free.
Two explosions took place in the airport's departure hall.
At least 31 people were killed and more than 230 others were harmed. Three Americans, Mormon missionaries, were seriously injured, as well as a member of the U.S. military and his family. The U.S. Embassy in Brussels asked U.S. citizens not to use buses and subways.
Two men used bombs to kill themselves at Brussels Airport. The police is looking for a third man seen with them in CCTV photo from the airport. ISIL said it was behind the attack.
Hours after the attacks, police went into a home in Schaarbeek, a north of Brussels, where they found a nail bomb, chemicals, and an ISIL flag. One man was arrested, but then released.
Belgian authorities said two brothers, Khalid and Ibrahim el-Bakraoui, both Belgians with criminal records — were among the three suicide bombers who attacked the Brussels metro and airport.The brothers are believed to have links to last year’s Paris attacks, and to Salah Abdeslam. There third man who appeared on the cameras is still free after he ran away when his bomb didn't explode.
After the attacks in Brussels, European leaders said terror will not scare them. In Belgium, officials declared three days of national mourning. Belgian Prime Minister said that Charles Michel sent a message to the people behind the attacks, saying, "to those who have chosen to be barbarous enemies of freedom, democracy and fundamental values ... we remain united as one."
In its message claiming responsibility, ISIS noted in a twitter post that "What will be coming is worse."
People shared cartoons and showed sadness in black, yellow and red, the colors of the Belgian flag. Others put messages of solidarity with #JeSuisBruxelles, or "I am Brussels," an ode to a similar outpouring with #JeSuisCharlie after the Charlie Hebdo attack in January 2015. Some people invited tourists stuck after the airport was shut into their homes using #OpenHouse.
French cartoonist Jean Plantureux, who goes by Plantu, drew an emotional cartoon for French newspaper Le Monde. A crying person wrapped in a French flag hugs a crying person with a Belgian flag, suggesting solidarity between the two countries.
People in Brussels and elsewhere brought flowers and lit candles to show how sad they are after the attacks.

</doc>
<doc id="536236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536236" title="Vacco v. Quill">
Vacco v. Quill

Vacco v. Quill, , was a landmark court decision about the right to die. New York had made physician-assisted suicide illegal. A group of doctors challenged this law. The case went all the way to the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1997, the Supreme Court decided that New York's law against physician-assisted suicide was constitutional and legal. They ruled that the Constitution of the United States does not guarantee the "right to die."
The state of New York had made physician-assisted suicide illegal. This law made it a crime for a doctor to give a patient medications that would kill them. It also made it illegal for a doctor to do anything else that would end a patient's life. These things were crimes even if the patient was terminally ill, wanted to die, and was competent (able to make decisions).
A group of doctors filed a lawsuit in federal court. They argued that this law was unconstitutional. They said the law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. The Equal Protection Clause says that every state must give everyone "the equal protection of the laws." The doctors argued that because of the law against physician-assisted suicide, terminally ill people did not have equal rights under the law. They pointed out that terminally ill patients could refuse treatment, which would lead to their death. However, these same patients did not have the right to give a doctor permission to end their lives. Basically, they were arguing that refusing treatment in order to cause death, and asking a doctor to help cause death, were the same thing.
First, the case went to the United States District Court. This court ruled that New York's law was constitutional. It said that the state of New York had a good reason to care about keeping its citizens alive and protecting people who might need protection. 
Next, the case was appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. It reversed the District Court's opinion. The Court of Appeals said that the law did not treat all competent patients equally when they wanted to end their lives. For example, if a patient were attached to a life support machine, like a ventilator, they had the right to have a doctor disconnect it. This would cause their death. However, a person in the same situation, on a life support machine, could not ask a doctor to give them medications to cause their death instead. The Court agreed that asking doctors to remove life support devices (which was legal) was the same as physician-assisted euthanasia (which was not legal). They ruled that this was not equal treatment, and that New York's law against physician-assisted suicide was unconstitutional under the Equal Protection Clause.
The case was appealed to the United States Supreme Court. On June 26, 1997, the Supreme Court voted 9-0 that New York's law was legal and constitutional. Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote the majority opinion, but five other Justices wrote separate concurring opinions.
As legal scholar Susan Stefan writes: "Justice Rehnquist's short, curt opinion reversing "Quill" is almost angry." Rehnquist writes that assisted suicide is completely different from allowing a patient to refuse treatment. The difference is that with assisted suicide, the doctor means to cause the patient's death. When the doctor gives the patient medication that will kill them, they are "causing" the patient's death. When a doctor lets a patient refuse treatment, they are letting the patient's "disease" cause their death.
The Court also wrote that there is no "fundamental" right to die in the Constitution. Because of this, laws that make physician-assisted suicide illegal do not violate terminally ill people's Constitutional rights. The Court added that the law allowed everyone to refuse treatment, and banned everyone from assisting suicide. This was equal treatment, and did not violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the decision said.
Finally, the Court said that the state of New York had "a legitimate interest" (good, valid reasons) in banning physician-assisted suicide. They said the ban would help the state prevent euthanasia, protect doctors' medical ethics, and protect terminally ill people who might feel pressured to end their lives. Most importantly, they said, New York's ban helped protect human life. The right to life (however long it may last) is an "unalienable right" (a natural right) guaranteed by the Constitution. The right to death, the Court said, is not.

</doc>
<doc id="536240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536240" title="Savi language">
Savi language

Savi (also called Sau, Sauji, Sawi) is a Dardic language spoken in parts of Afghanistan. It is also spoken in parts of Pakistan. There are estimated to be about 4,200 speakers worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="536255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536255" title="Category:Musicians from Alberta">
Category:Musicians from Alberta


</doc>
<doc id="536256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536256" title="Category:American country singers">
Category:American country singers


</doc>
<doc id="536257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536257" title="Category:Country singers">
Category:Country singers


</doc>
<doc id="536259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536259" title="Category:Murder in 2016">
Category:Murder in 2016


</doc>
<doc id="536260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536260" title="Cruel and unusual punishment">
Cruel and unusual punishment

Cruel and unusual punishment is punishment that causes severe suffering, pain, or humiliation. Many countries have laws against cruel and unusual punishment. There are also international laws and treaties against this type of punishment.
For most of recorded history, the death penalty was often painful on purpose. Severe historical punishments included being burned or boiled to death; cut or torn apart; crushed by stones; sawed in half; crucified; and many other extremely painful methods of execution. Punishments that were not meant to cause death were also often painful on purpose.
The exact words "cruel and unusual punishment" were first used in the English Bill of Rights 1689. In 1791, the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution made "cruel and unusual punishment" illegal in the United States. Seven years later, the British Leeward Islands used the same words in their Slavery Amelioration Act. 
Here are some examples of other laws that include protections against cruel and unusual punishment.
The Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution says that "cruel and unusual punishments [shall not be] inflicted." However, the Constitution does not define exactly what cruel and unusual punishments are.
In a case called "Furman v. Georgia" (), the Supreme Court of the United States decided what questions they would use to figure out whether a punishment was cruel and unusual. Justice William Brennan wrote the opinion in the case. He made four rules about punishments:
In this decision, the Supreme Court set a precedent that if a punishment broke any of these four rules, it would be viewed as "cruel and unusual," and would be illegal under the Constitution.

</doc>
<doc id="536261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536261" title="Category:Terrorist incidents in 2016">
Category:Terrorist incidents in 2016


</doc>
<doc id="536263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536263" title="Early Norwegian black metal scene">
Early Norwegian black metal scene

The early Norwegian black metal scene was a black metal music scene and subculture in Norway during the early 1990s. It is said to have created the modern black metal genre and produced many influential artists.
The scene drew a lot of media attention after some members were responsible for two murders and lots of church burnings in Norway. The scene had an ideology that some people say was like a cult. They had anti-Christian and misanthropic views. Some were actual Satanists who wanted to spread terror, hatred and evil. The core members called themselves "The Black Circle" or "Black Metal Inner Circle". It was made up of mainly young men who gathered around the record shop Helvete ("Hell") in Oslo. They liked to wear corpse paint. The scene was exclusive, and most bands wanted to remain underground and out of reach to the mainstream.
In August 1993 and May 1994, many members of the scene were arrested for arson, murder, assault and possession of explosives.
During the 1980's, bands were called "black metal" if they had Satanic lyrics. These bands usually only used these lyrics for "shock value." During 1990–1992, a lot of bands who were influenced by those bands, began playing a new type of black metal. The rise of popularity during this time was called the "second wave of black metal".

</doc>
<doc id="536264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536264" title="History of racial segregation in the United States">
History of racial segregation in the United States

Racial segregation means separating people because of their races. In the United States, racial segregation has existed since before the United States was its own country. Slavery, racist laws, racist attitudes, and many other things caused the United States to segregate white and non-white people for centuries. Although segregation is now against the law, racist attitudes still remain, and new forms of segregation have formed over time.
The first African slaves were brought to America in 1619. This was just nine years after British settlers created the first permanent settlement in America, at Jamestown, Virginia.
People in all thirteen American colonies used slaves. Many of the Founding Fathers of the United States owned slaves, including George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, James Madison, Patrick Henry, and John Jay.
Abolitionists started trying to make slavery illegal in the mid-1700s. By 1804, all of the northern states had ended slavery. However, none of the Southern states had. The Southern states believed that slavery was their right, and they did not want to give it up. Cotton had become a very important crop in the South. Owners of large cotton plantations were used to having slaves to do work for free, which made the plantation owners richer because they did not have to pay anybody to work.
Eventually, the South tried to leave the United States. This caused the American Civil War. The North won, and in 1865, the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution made slavery illegal everywhere in the country. In 1868 and 1870, the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments gave African-Americans citizenship, and gave them the right to vote.
Losing the Civil War did not change people's ideas about African-American people. During slavery, slave owners had not seen slaves as humans. They saw them as property, things to buy and sell, like animals you would use on a farm. After the War, many white people still did not see African-Americans as equal to whites.
Starting in 1890, the all-white legislatures in the Southern states began to pass state laws that required segregation. These racist laws became known as Jim Crow laws. For example, blacks could not:
In 1896, in a case called "Plessy v. Ferguson", the Supreme Court ruled that these laws were legal. They said that segregation was fine, as long as things were "separate but equal." In the South, everything was separate. However, places like black schools and libraries got much less money and were not as good as places for whites. Things were separate, but not equal.
Segregation kept African-Americans from having the basic rights that the Founding Fathers had written into the Constitution of the United States. Law-makers, government officials, voting officials, and police officers were all white. This prevented African-Americans from having any say in their government; being able to get the same voting rights as white people; having police officers protect them; or being able to get justice for crimes against them. Because they could not count on all-white police forces to protect them, violence against African-Americans, especially lynchings, increased. Because African-Americans could not vote, they also could not serve on juries. This meant that if a black person was ever on trial for a crime, the jury would be all-white.
Problems were worst in the South. However, African-Americans went through different kinds of segregation in other places.
Across the United States, segregation in housing was a problem. Many African-Americans could not get mortgages to buy houses. Realtors would not sell black people houses in the suburbs, where white people lived. They also would not rent apartments in white areas. Until the 1950s, the federal government did nothing about this.
When he was elected in 1913, President Woodrow Wilson made government offices segregated. He believed that segregation was best for everyone.
Black people fought in both World War I and World War II. However, the military was segregated; black officers even had to enter some military bases through separate entrances as white officers. Black soldiers also were not given the same opportunities as white soldiers. Finally, in 1948, President Harry Truman de-segregated the military.
African Americans tried to fight back against discrimination in many ways. Mostly, they tried to use the courts to get justice. For example, in 1909, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was created. Its goal was to end race discrimination through lawsuits, education, and lobbying.
However, eventually, many African Americans became frustrated and began to dislike the idea of using slow, legal strategies to achieve desegregation. Instead, African American activists decided to use a combination of protests, nonviolence, and civil disobedience. This is how the African-American Civil Rights Movement of 1954-1968 began.
From about 1954 to 1968, many African-American people and white allies fought to end racial segregation. The movement depended on non-violent protests, sit-ins, marches, civil disobedience, and lawsuits. Its victories included:
These victories were not easy. Protesters were often threatened and attacked. Leaders' homes were bombed. In Birmingham, the police attacked protesters, including children, with police dogs and fire hoses, then took them to jail. In other cities, police beat protesters with clubs and fired into student protests. Three of the movement's leaders Martin Luther King, Jr., Malcolm X, and Medgar Evers were murdered. 
Nobody knows exactly how many people were killed during the Civil Rights Movement. However, at least 37 people were murdered, either because they were doing civil rights work, or because racist white groups like the Ku Klux Klan and the White Citizens' Council wanted to terrorize black people. Twelve of these people were children or teenagers when they were murdered.
Eventually, the Movement was successful in removing the laws that allowed segregation. However, attitudes are harder to change, and racism still exists in the United States.
In the early 1800s, the United States was growing farther into the South. White Americans wanted more land to plant cotton. However, many different Native American tribes lived in the lands the United States wanted to take over.
Andrew Jackson was a big supporter of "Indian removal" convincing or forcing Native Americans to leave the South and move west, outside of the United States. First as a Major General in the United States Army, and then as President, he led the United States' "Indian removal" program.
The program started in 1814, when Jackson led a group of soldiers who defeated the Creek Indians. He forced them to sign a treaty giving up over 20 million acres of their land to the United States. Over the next ten years, Jackson got nine other tribes to sign treaties giving up their land.
In 1829, Jackson became President. That same year, gold was found in Georgia, which caused a gold rush. This only made people in the United States want control of the South even more. In 1830, Jackson passed the Indian Removal Act of 1830. This law said Jackson could give land west of the Mississippi River to Indian tribes if they agreed to give up their lands in the South. The law promised the tribes that they could live on their new lands forever, and be protected by the United States government. By the time his presidency ended in 1837, Jackson had gotten Native Americans to sign almost 70 treaties giving up their land. Almost 50,000 Native Americans moved to "Indian Territory" west of the Mississippi River. However, the government already had a plan to force them into a smaller area, in what is now eastern Oklahoma.
The Cherokee Nation refused to leave their lands. They even got the United States Supreme Court to rule that they were sovereign and did not have to follow the laws of the United States. Jackson simply ignored this ruling. In 1835, he got a small group of Cherokee to sign a treaty agreeing to leave their lands. The rest of the Cherokee Nation tried to keep their lands. However, in 1838, the United States Army and the Georgia militia forced them to leave their lands. On what is known as the "Trail of Tears," about 15,000 Cherokee were forced to walk over 2,000 miles to Oklahoma. About 4,000 died along the way.
By the 1840s, except for a few Seminole Indians living in Florida, there were no Native Americans left in the American South.
In 1851, the United States Congress passed a law that created Indian reservations in Oklahoma. White settlers had already begun to move into the lands the Native Americans had been forced to move to. This was causing conflicts between whites and Native Americans. The goal of the reservations was to segregate the Native Americans from white settlers.
In 1868, President Ulysses S. Grant decided to create more reservations, and force Native American tribes that lived in the west to move to them. Along with segregating the Native Americans and clearing their land for white use, Grant planned to have church officials run the reservations so they could teach Christianity to the tribes.
Many tribes refused to leave their lands, and were forced onto reservations by the United States Army. If Native Americans left their reservations, the Army went after them to try to force them back onto the reservations. This led to massacres of Native Americans, and some wars.
In 1887, Congress passed the Dawes Act. This law stopped giving land to whole tribes, and broke up the land into small pieces for individual families to use for farming. Indians who took the land, started living alone instead of with their tribes, and started farming were viewed as "civilized," and they were made United States citizens. Indians who refused to segregate themselves even more on small pieces of land were not allowed to be citizens. Whatever land was left was sold to white settlers, which made the reservations even smaller.
It was not until 1975 that the Supreme Court ruled that tribes are sovereign over tribal lands and members of the tribe.
As of 2015, all of the Indian reservations in the United States, together, make up 87,800 square miles an area about the size of Idaho. However, Native Americans are now allowed to live or work anywhere they want to, and as of 2016, more than half have left the reservations.
On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and declared war on the United States. This caused the United States to enter World War II and start fighting Japan, as well as Nazi Germany and Italy.
In February 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an order that allowed the military to force people to leave the West Coast. However, Japanese-Americans were the only people on the West Coast who were forced to leave. They were given 48 hours to leave their homes for internment camps. These were camps where Japanese-Americans were kept separate from everybody else. The camps were surrounded by barbed wire and guarded by soldiers with guns.
The United States government forced over 110,000 Japanese-American people into internment camps. (This was over 80% of the Japanese-American people who lived in the continental United States at the time.) More than three out of every five of these people were born in the United States, and were United States citizens. About half were children.
Because the United States was fighting Nazi Germany and Italy as well as Japan, some German-Americans and Italian-Americans were forced into internment camps too. So were some Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany. However, this was not as common as it was with Japanese-Americans.
In 1945, the year World War II ended, the United States let people out of the camps. However, many of the people who were interned had lost everything they had. In 1988, the United States government finally apologized and said that there was no reason for the internment other than racism.

</doc>
<doc id="536283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536283" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Instructions">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Instructions


</doc>
<doc id="536295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536295" title="Norris Bradbury">
Norris Bradbury

Norris Edwin Bradbury (30 May 1909 – 20 August 1997), was an American physicist. He served as Director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory for 25 years from 1945 to 1970. He replaced Robert Oppenheimer. Bradbury worked with Oppenheimer on the Manhattan Project during World War II. Bradbury was in charge of the final assembly of "the Gadget", detonated in July 1945 for the Trinity test.

</doc>
<doc id="536296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536296" title="Leon Charney">
Leon Charney

Leon Charney (1938 – 22 March 2016) was an American real estate tycoon, author, philanthropist, political pundit, media personality and Jewish cantor. He lived in Manhattan in New York City. In March 2012, "Forbes" listed Charney as #353 among the wealthiest Americans. 
In 1979, Charney played an important role as the unofficial adviser to former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, most well known for his behind-the-scenes role in the Camp David Accords which created the first comprehensive peace between Israel and Egypt in 1978 and 1979.
Charney died on March 21, 2016 at the age of 77.

</doc>
<doc id="536297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536297" title="Jack Mansell">
Jack Mansell

Jack Mansell (22 August 1927 – 19 March 2016) was a British professional footballer. He made 274 appearances in the Football League as a fullback for Brighton & Hove Albion, Cardiff City and Portsmouth. 
After retiring as a player he joined the coaching staff at Sheffield Wednesday. He coached many clubs with his longest spell being at Reading and had experience overseas with the likes of Blauw-Wit Amsterdam, Boston Beacons and the Israel national football team. In 1982, Mansell was chosen to train Maccabi Haifa, after a year at the Israeli national team.
Mansell died on 19 March 2016 at the age of 88.

</doc>
<doc id="536298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536298" title="Sergey Lavrov">
Sergey Lavrov

Sergey Viktorovich Lavrov (, ; born 21 March 1950) is a Russian diplomat. He is the Foreign Minister of Russia. He has been in office since 2004. From 1994 to 2004, Lavrov was a Soviet diplomat, and the Permanent Representative of Russia to the United Nations.

</doc>
<doc id="536301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536301" title="Rita Gam">
Rita Gam

Rita Gam (April 2, 1927March 22, 2016) was an American and television actress and documentary filmmaker. She was nominated for a Golden Globe and won the Silver Bear for Best Actress. She was known for her roles in "The Thief" and "King of Kings". She was also known for being Sidney Lumet's first wife.
Gam shared the Silver Bear for Best Actress award with Viveca Lindfors at the 1962 Berlin Film Festival, for their performances in Tad Danielewski's "No Exit".
Gam died on March 22, 2016 at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from respiratory failure, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="536312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536312" title="Loratadine">
Loratadine

Loratadine (also known as Claritin) is a drug used to treat hay fever, urticaria and skin allergies. It is closely related to tryciclic antidepressants. It is distantly related to quetiapine.
Loratadine was discovered in 1981. It was first sold in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="536313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536313" title="Hay fever">
Hay fever

Hay fever (also known as allergic rhinitis or pollinosis) is a type of inflammation in the nose. It occurs when the immune system overreacts to allergens in the air. Symptoms include sneezing, red, itchy and watery eyes, and swelling around the eyes. 
Hay fever is typically caused by allergens, for example pollen, pet hair and mold.
Hay fever is most common between ages twenty and forty.

</doc>
<doc id="536314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536314" title="Ethan Carter III">
Ethan Carter III

Michael Hutter (born March 18, 1983) is an American professional wrestler. He works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name Ethan Carter III (often called "EC3"), He has won the TNA World Heavyweight Champion three times.

</doc>
<doc id="536324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536324" title="Paolo Guerrero">
Paolo Guerrero

José Paolo Guerrero Gonzales (born 1 January 1984 in Lima, Peru) is a Peruvian footballer who plays as a striker for Brazilian club Flamengo and the Peru national team.

</doc>
<doc id="536332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536332" title="Wildest Dreams (song)">
Wildest Dreams (song)

"Wildest Dreams" is a 2015 dream pop ballad by Taylor Swift. The song was released on August 31, 2015. It got generally positive reviews from music critics. 
The song hit #5 on the American "Billboard" Hot 100.
"Wildest Dreams" has been certified 2× Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for sales and streams of over 2 million copies in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="536356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536356" title="Hernandez v. Texas">
Hernandez v. Texas

Hernandez v. Texas, , was a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court. In a unanimous ruling, the Court held that Mexican Americans and all other racial or national groups in the United States had equal protection under the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. The ruling was written by Chief Justice Earl Warren. This was the first case in which Mexican-American lawyers had appeared before the US Supreme Court. 
Pete Hernandez, a Mexican-American agricultural worker, was convicted for the 1950 murder of Joe Espinosa. Hernandez's "pro bono" legal team, including Gustavo C. García, wanted to challenge what they knew was "the systematic exclusion of persons of Mexican origin" from all types of jury duty in at least seventy counties in Texas. His defense lawyers argued that persons of Mexican descent had not been allowed to serve on juries even though numerous Mexican Americans were citizens and had qualified for jury duty in Jackson County. Even though 14 percent of the county was Hispanic, none had served on juries for at least the last 25 years. This meant Hernandez had been deprived of his Fourteenth Amendment rights. Hernandez and his lawyers appealed to the Supreme Court of Texas, then to the United States Supreme Court through a writ of certiorari. 
The unanimousmajority opinion was delivered by Chief Justice Earl Warren. The Court ruled the Fourteenth Amendment protects persons beyond the racial classes of white or black, and extends protection to other racial or national groups, as well as legal classes. Mexican Americans were such a "special class" and were entitled to equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Pete Hernandez was granted a new trial with a jury that included Mexican Americans. Hernandez was found to be guilty of murder. The ultimate effect of this ruling was that the protection of the 14th Amendment was ruled to cover any racial, national and ethnic groups of the United States for which discrimination could be proved. The Court's ruling served as a legal precedent used in legal challenges against unfair housing laws, school segregation, and voting rights of Mexican Americans nationwide. 

</doc>
<doc id="536358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536358" title="Gideon v. Wainwright">
Gideon v. Wainwright

Gideon v. Wainwright, , is a landmark case in United States Supreme Court history. The Court decided that if a person is charged with a crime, and they cannot pay for a lawyer, the state has to give them one for free. This case caused the public defender program to be created in the United States. (A public defender is a lawyer who defends clients who cannot pay them.)
Between midnight and 8:00 a.m. on June 3, 1961, some broke into the Bay Harbor Pool Room in Panama City, Florida. The person broke a door, smashed a cigarette machine and a record player, and stole coins from a cash register. Later that day, a witness said he had seen Clarence Earl Gideon in the pool room at around 5:30 that morning. The witness said Gideon left with a wine bottle and money in his pockets. Based only on this information, the police arrested Gideon and charged him with breaking and entering with intent to commit petty larceny. This charge means a person broke into a place, meaning to steal someone else's property. (In Florida, at the time, "petty" larceny meant that the person stole something that was worth less than $50.) Under Florida law, if Gideon was found guilty, he could be put in prison for up to five years. 
Gideon was too poor to afford a lawyer, so he appeared in court alone. He asked the judge to assign him a lawyer (called "counsel" in court). He and the judge had this conversation:
The Florida court refused to assign a lawyer for Gideon. Because of this, he had to act as his own lawyer in court and defend himself. Gideon had quit school in the eighth grade, and had no training in the law. He tried to defend himself and argue that he was not guilty. However, he made many legal mistakes during the trial. For example, he asked witnesses questions that only made him seem more guilty. He also chose witnesses for his defense (witnesses that were supposed to help prove his innocence) who just supported the prosecution's evidence against Gideon. The judge also made some mistakes, and did not tell Gideon about legal rights that a lawyer would have known about.
After the trial ended, the jury found Gideon guilty. The judge sentenced Gideon to five years in prison the most severe punishment the law allowed.
In 1961, state courts had to follow the Supreme Court's decision in "Betts v. Brady." In this case, the Court ruled that if a defendant was charged with a capital crime, he had to be be assigned a lawyer if he could not pay for one. However, as long as the defendant was not charged with a capital crime, the states did not have to assign free lawyers to every defendant who could not afford them. The Court ruled that having a lawyer was not a basic right, and was not necessary for a fair trial.
In their decision, the Court did rule that there were special cases where a court should assign a lawyer. In these special cases, not having a lawyer would make it difficult for a defendant to get a fair trial. These "specialized circumstances" included things like a defendant not having education or not knowing the rules of the court.
The Supreme Court had set different rules for federal courts. In 1938, in a case called "Johnson v. Zerbst", the Court ruled that in federal courts, any person who was charged with a crime and could not afford a lawyer had to be assigned a lawyer for free. The Court also ruled that the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution applied to federal courts, but not state courts. (The Sixth Amendment says that "In all criminal [trials], the accused shall ... have the assistance of counsel for his defence.")
What this meant was that in 1961, throughout the state of Florida, most defendants did not have lawyers. They had two choices: to plead guilty, or to defend themselves at trial. A Florida lawyer remembers that "[before] 1963, lawyers were likely to appear in Florida courtrooms only for the wealthy."
In a letter he wrote from prison, Gideon once wrote:
First, Gideon filed a writ of habeas corpus with the Florida State Supreme Court. This is a request to be set free from unfair imprisonment. The Florida Supreme Court summarily denied his request meaning they refused to even hold a court hearing or hear Gideon's arguments.
From his prison cell, using the prison library and writing in pencil on prison paper, Gideon then appealed to the United States Supreme Court. He asked the Supreme Court to review his case "because the 'due process clause' of the fourteenth admendment of the constitution and the fifth and sixth articales of the Bill of rights has been violated" "sic".
Gideon argued that he had been denied a lawyer, which violated his Sixth Amendment rights. In "Betts v. Brady", the Supreme Court had ruled that the Sixth Amendment did not apply to the states. However, Gideon argued that it did, because of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
The Fourteenth Amendment says that no state can take away any person's "life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person ... the equal protection of the laws." Gideon argued that without assigning lawyers to poor defendants, the state of Florida was not giving those defendants due process or equal protection under the laws.
The Supreme Court agreed to hear Gideon's appeal. They had decided to think about whether "Betts v. Brady" should be "reconsidered" (re-thought).
The basic question the Supreme Court had to answer had to do with the Sixth Amendment. They had already decided that under the Sixth Amendment, everyone accused of a crime in "federal" court had the right to have a lawyer, even if they could not pay for one. Now they needed to decide whether the Sixth Amendment applied to the states like it did to the federal government. In other words, did every person accused of a crime in "state" court have the right to a lawyer?
The Supreme Court had assigned Gideon a well-known lawyer from Washington, D.C. named Abe Fortas. (In 1965, Fortas would become a United States Supreme Court Justice.) 
Fortas argued that it was impossible for a person to get a fair trial without a lawyer. He argued that under the Fourteenth Amendment's "due process" requirement, the states had to give a person a fair trial before taking away their freedom. By denying Gideon a lawyer, the state of Florida denied him a fair trial, and violated his right to due process under the Fourteenth Amendment.
A lawyer named Bruce Jacob argued the case against Gideon in front of the Supreme Court. He made a few different arguments.
Jacob argued that the Constitution allows states to make their own rules about criminal procedure (how to run criminal trials). He talked about federalism the separation of powers between federal and state governments that is written into the Constitution. By making a rule saying the states always had to give poor defendants free lawyers, the federal government would be over-stepping its powers. The states would be unable to make their own rules, and this would take away a right the Constitution gave to the states.
Jacob also argued that a person does not need a lawyer to get a fair trial. He said that judges, and even prosecutors, help protect the rights of people who defend themselves in court.
In addition, Jacob said that if the Court ruled in favor of Gideon, the effects would be harmful. If the Court ruled that a lawyer was needed for a fair trial, then the state would also have to give poor defendants free lawyers for other types of trials, like appeals and civil trials. The state would never have enough lawyers for this, or enough money to pay them, he said. Also, out of Florida's 8,000 prisoners, 65% 5,200 prisoners had not had lawyers. Jacob argued that many of these prisoners could go free if the Court ruled in favor of Gideon.
On March 18, 1963, the Supreme Court voted 9-0 that Gideon was right. His rights "had" been violated.
The Court ruled that the Sixth Amendment's right to a lawyer does apply to the states. It reasoned that without a lawyer, a person cannot get a fair trial. If a person does not get a fair trial, they are not getting the "due process of law" that the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees. In other words, because people have the right to due process, they have the right to a fair trial; and because they cannot get a fair trial without a lawyer, they also have the right to a lawyer.
The Court also said that its earlier decision in "Betts v. Brady" had been wrong. This ruling overturned the Supreme Court's earlier decision in "Betts v. Brady" (meaning the "Betts" decision was no longer valid). Justice Black (who had disagreed with the "Betts" decision when the Court made it) wrote:
The Supreme Court's ruling did not mean that Gideon could automatically go free. It meant he got a new trial this time, with a free lawyer assigned to him. 
Gideon asked for a lawyer named Fred Turner, who had a very good reputation, and the judge agreed. With Turner arguing the case, it took jurors less than an hour to find Gideon not guilty. Gideon was set free that day.
Gideon died on January 18, 1972, from cancer and tuberculosis. He was buried in an unmarked grave in Missouri. 
Almost thirteen years later, the American Civil Liberties Union paid for a headstone to be put on Gideon's grave. On the gravestone, there is a quote based on something Gideon wrote in a letter to Abe Fortas: "I believe that each era finds an improvement in law for the benefit of mankind."
Based on the Supreme Court decision, each of Florida's 5,200 prisoners who had been convicted without counsel had the right to a new trial this time with a lawyer. However, about 1,200 of these prisoners were set free without a new trial. This happened because witnesses in their cases had died or moved away, and the state of Florida did not have enough evidence to try them again.
The same year "Gideon" was decided, the Florida state legislature set up their public defender system. Throughout the 1960s, states that did not already have public defender systems created them.
When "Gideon" was decided, there were still 13 states that did not always give lawyers to poor criminal defendants. Like in Florida, many of these poor defendants did not get fair trials because they did not have a lawyer's help. After the "Gideon" decision, every person who is charged with a crime, in any court in the United States, has the right to a lawyer even if they cannot pay for one. Defendants can decide they do not want a lawyer, but when they do that, they are giving up their right to a lawyer because they want to.
Four years after "Gideon", in a case called "Burget v. Texas", the Supreme Court ruled that the "Gideon" decision applied "retroactively." This means it applies even to defendants who were convicted before "Gideon" was decided in 1963. In other words, the Court was admitting that defendants should have had the right to counsel all along, even before "Gideon". The Court decided in "Gideon" that people could not get a fair trial without lawyers; that was just as true for people who were convicted before 1963. These people, too, now deserved new trials, with free lawyers to help them.
The "Gideon" decision still guarantees free counsel to every poor individual charged with a crime in the United States. However, many legal scholars agree that there are many problems with the public defender system in the 21st century. Because of these problems, they argue, many poor defendants are not getting the rights the "Gideon" decision gave them.
According to these scholars, one of the biggest problems with today's public defender programs is that they do not get enough money from the government to deal with the number of poor defendants they have to represent. This means:
When public defenders cannot do their jobs well because they have too many cases, have too little experience, or are too overwhelmed, defendants get more severe punishments when they are convicted.

</doc>
<doc id="536365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536365" title="Radical Face">
Radical Face

Radical Face is a musical act whose main member is Ben Cooper, who sings and plays multiple instruments. All the sounds are put together on a computer. Cooper is also in Electric President, an electronic music group. However, Radical Face has an acoustic sound.
Radical Face's music has been on television programmes and in the movie "Wish I Was Here".
Cooper's first album to be recorded under the name Radical Face was "The Junkyard Chandelier" (2003). The album was never released. However, it can be downloaded for free online. "Ghost" was the first official studio album, released in March 2007.
On November 16, 2010, Cooper released an EP titled "Touch The Sky". It was a preview for a trilogy of albums called "Family Tree". This trilogy is about a fictional family from the 1800s, the Northcotes. It is also really about Cooper's own life. The albums are "The Roots", "The Branches", and "The Leaves".
Another EP, "The Bastards: Volume One", was released before "The Roots". In August 2011, iTunes accidentally released "The Roots" to users outside of the US. It was released in the US on October 4, 2011.
"The Family Tree: The Branches" was released on October 22, 2013 in America and on November 1 in Europe. "The Bastards: Volume Two" was also released that year.
"The Bastards: Volume Three" and "The Bastards: Volume Four" were both released in 2015, before the release of "The Family Tree: The Leaves" in March 2016. "The Leaves" has songs that are about Cooper's own life.
"Clone", an album by Ben Cooper and Richard Colado, was supposed to be released before fall of 2012, but it kept getting delayed. The first track of the album, "The Laboratory", was finally released on September 23, 2014. Cooper then released one track per week.

</doc>
<doc id="536373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536373" title="2015–16 La Liga">
2015–16 La Liga

The 2015–16 La Liga season (known as the "Liga BBVA" for sponsorship reasons) is the 85th since its establishment. Barcelona are the defending champions. The season started on 22 August 2015 and will conclude on 15 May 2016.
 <br> <br>

</doc>
<doc id="536377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536377" title="Test case (law)">
Test case (law)

In case law, a test case is a legal action whose purpose is to set a precedent. An example of a test case might be a person who files a lawsuit in order to see if the court considers a certain law or a certain legal precedent applies in certain circumstances. This is useful, for example, in order to later file similar lawsuits in similar circumstances. Sometimes, lawyers delay filing a lawsuit to wait and see how a test case is decided. Test cases are sometimes used to challenge a law to have it possibly overturned. Government agencies sometimes bring test cases in order to confirm or expand their powers.
Examples of influential test cases include:

</doc>
<doc id="536379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536379" title="Strict scrutiny">
Strict scrutiny

Strict scrutiny is the most stringent standard of judicial review used by United States courts. It is part of the hierarchy of standards that courts use to weigh the government's interest against a constitutional right or principle. The lesser standards are rational basis review and exacting or intermediate scrutiny. These standards are used to test statutes and government action at all levels of government within the United States.
The idea of "levels of judicial scrutiny", including strict scrutiny, was introduced in "United States v. Carolene Products Co." (1938), one of a series of decisions testing the constitutionality of New Deal legislation. The first and most notable case in which the Supreme Court applied the strict scrutiny standard and found the government's actions valid was "Korematsu v. United States" (1944). In "Korematsu" the Court upheld the government ruling 6-9 that the need to protect the country from espionage outweighed the rights of Mr. Korematsu.
U.S. courts apply the strict scrutiny standard in two contexts: when a fundamental constitutional right is infringed, particularly those found in the Bill of Rights and those the court has deemed a fundamental right protected by the Due Process Clause or "liberty clause" of the 14th Amendment, or when a government action applies to a "suspect classification," such as race or national origin.
To pass strict scrutiny, the law or policy must satisfy three tests:

</doc>
<doc id="536384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536384" title="Category:Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin">
Category:Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin


</doc>
<doc id="536385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536385" title="Cancer of unknown primary origin">
Cancer of unknown primary origin

Cancer of unknown primary origin (CUP, "occult cancer") is a term used to describe a cancer that is said to be at the metastatic stage at the time of diagnosis, but a primary tumor cannot be identified. A diagnosis of CUP requires a clinical picture with metastatic disease and one or more biopsy results inconsistent with a primary tumor.
CUP is found in about 3 to 5% of all people diagnosed with invasive cancer, and carries a poor prognosis in most (80 to 85%) of those circumstances. The other 15 to 20% of patients, however, have a relatively long survival with appropriate treatment.

</doc>
<doc id="536406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536406" title="Joe Garagiola, Sr.">
Joe Garagiola, Sr.

Joseph Henry Garagiola, Sr. (February 12, 1926 – March 23, 2016) was an American professional baseball catcher and later an announcer and television host. 
Garagiola played nine seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the St. Louis Cardinals, Pittsburgh Pirates, Chicago Cubs and the New York Giants. He was also well known outside of baseball for having been one of the regular panelists on "The Today Show" for many years and for his many appearances on game shows both as a host and panelist.
Garagiola died on March 23, 2016 in Phoenix, Arizona at the age of 90.

</doc>
<doc id="536407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536407" title="Phife Dawg">
Phife Dawg

Malik Isaac Taylor (November 20, 1970 – March 22, 2016), better known by his stage name Phife Dawg (or simply Phife), was an American rapper. 
He was a member of the group A Tribe Called Quest with high school classmates Q-Tip and Ali Shaheed Muhammad (and for a short time Jarobi White). He was also known as the "Five Foot Assassin" and "The Five Footer", because he stood at .
Taylor died on March 22, 2016 due to complications of diabetes at the age of 45.

</doc>
<doc id="536408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536408" title="Peter Brown (actor)">
Peter Brown (actor)

Peter Brown (October 5, 1935 – March 21, 2016) was an American television actor. He was known for his four-year role as young Deputy Johnny McKay in the 1958 to 1962 ABC/Warner Brothers western television series, "Lawman" and as Texas Ranger Chad Cooper on "Laredo" from 1965 to 1967.
Brown died on March 21, 2016 in Phoenix, Arizona from complications of Parkinson's disease, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="536409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536409" title="Glen Dawson">
Glen Dawson

Glen Dawson (June 3, 1912 – March 22, 2016) was an American rock climber, mountaineer, antiquarian bookseller, publisher and environmentalist. He was born in California. 
In 1929, Glen began serious mountaineering in the Sierra Nevada. On July 6, 1930, during the Sierra Club's annual High Trip, he first teamed up with Jules Eichorn to make the third ascent of Red-and-White Mountain in the Sierra.
Dawson died in Pasadena, California on March 22, 2016, aged 103.

</doc>
<doc id="536410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536410" title="Jimmy Riley">
Jimmy Riley

Martin James Norman Riley (22 May 1954 – 23 March 2016), better known as Jimmy Riley, was a Jamaican singer. Along to recording solo, he was also a member of the Sensations and The Uniques. He was the father of Tarrus Riley. 
In September 2013 he released the album "Contradiction", that featured guest appearances from his son Tarrus, Sizzla, and Fantan Mojah. 
Riley died on the morning of 23 March 2016 in New York City after suffering from cancer, aged 61.

</doc>
<doc id="536412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536412" title="Carolyn Squires">
Carolyn Squires

Carolyn M. Squires (September 25, 1940 – March 21, 2016) was an American politician. She was a member of the Democratic Party. 
Squires was a member of the Montana House of Representatives for the 96th district from 2010 to 2015. From 2002 to 2010, she was a member of the Montana Senate, representing District 48, where she served as Majority Whip. Earlier she was a member of the Montana House of Representatives from 1987 through 2000.
Squires died in Missoula, Montana from colorectal cancer at the age of 75.

</doc>
<doc id="536413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536413" title="Missoula, Montana">
Missoula, Montana

Missoula is a city in the U.S. state of Montana and is the county seat of Missoula County. , the United States Census Bureau estimated the city's population at 69,821 and the population of the Missoula Metropolitan Area at 112,684. It is the second largest city in Montana. It is home of the University of Montana.

</doc>
<doc id="536415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536415" title="Santiago J. Erevia">
Santiago J. Erevia

Santiago Jesus Erevia (December 15, 1946 – March 22, 2016) was an American U.S. Army-veteran. He was born in Nordheim, Texas. Erevia served in the Vietnam War starting at the age of 22. 
In 1970, Erevia left active service with a two-year reserve obligation. In 1972 he joined the Texas National Guard and went on to serve 17 years. Erevia worked as a mail carrier for the United States Postal Service, retiring in 2002 after thirty-two years of service. 
Erevia was awarded the Medal of Honor by President Barack Obama in a March 18, 2014 ceremony at the White House.
Erevia died on March 22, 2016 in San Antonio, Texas at the age of 70.

</doc>
<doc id="536426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536426" title="Category:1963 in the United States">
Category:1963 in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="536427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536427" title="Category:1969 in the United States">
Category:1969 in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="536428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536428" title="Category:Disasters in the 1960s">
Category:Disasters in the 1960s


</doc>
<doc id="536434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536434" title="EDVAC">
EDVAC

EDVAC (Electronic Discrete Variable Automatic Computer) was one of the first electronic computers. Unlike the computer before it, the ENIAC, EDVAC operated in binary and was able to store programs.
Functionally, EDVAC was a binary serial computer with automatic addition, subtraction, multiplication, programmed division and automatic checking with a capacity of 1,000 44-bit words. EDVAC's average addition time was 864 microseconds and its average multiplication time was 2,900 microseconds.
By 1960, EDVAC was running over 20 hours a day with error-free run time averaging eight hours. EDVAC ran until 1961 when it was replaced by BRLESC. During its operational life it proved to be reliable and productive for its time.

</doc>
<doc id="536440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536440" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Radical Face">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Radical Face


</doc>
<doc id="536448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536448" title="Naked singularity">
Naked singularity

In general relativity, a naked singularity is a gravitational singularity that is viewable from the outside. The event horizon is like a bubble which surrounds a black hole. Inside the event horizon, the pull of the light cannot escape, so we are unable to view objects inside the event horizon. This includes the event horizon itself. Naked singularities do not have an event horizon, hence the term 'naked'.
The existence of naked singularities is a very important topic in physics, because it would mean we could actually see phenomena made by black holes that we wouldn't be able to see otherwise. In addition, naked singularities would pose big problems for general relativity, since scientists still haven't figured out a working idea for what happens to space-time in and around a black hole. Quantum mechanics, the main other scientific theory scientists turn to in physics, is also unable to explain how space-time would behave in such a situation.
Although the cosmic censorship hypothesis says that naked singularities cannot exist, some research says that if loop quantum gravity (a scientific theory that says the universe is made of small 'loops') is correct, naked singularities could exist in nature. Other calculations and arguments have been made to support this.

</doc>
<doc id="536455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536455" title="Civil Rights Cases">
Civil Rights Cases

The Civil Rights Cases , were a group of five similar cases consolidated into one issue for the United States Supreme Court to review. The Court held that Congress lacked the constitutional authority under the Fourteenth Amendment to outlaw racial discrimination by private individuals and organizations, rather than state and local governments.
The Court held that the Civil Rights Act of 1875, which provided that "all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of inns, public conveyances on land or water, theaters, and other places of public amusement; subject only to the conditions and limitations established by law, and applicable alike to citizens of every race and color, regardless of any previous condition of servitude" was unconstitutional.
The decision itself involved five consolidated cases (United States v. Stanley, United States v. Ryan, United States v. Nichols, United States v. Singleton, and Robinson v. Memphis & Charleston Railroad 109 U.S. 3, 3 S. Ct. 18, 27 L. Ed. 835.) coming from different lower courts in which Black Americans had sued theaters, hotels and transit companies that had refused them service or excluded them from "white only" facilities.
 The Court, in an 8-1 decision by Justice Joseph P. Bradley, held that the language of the 14th Amendment, which prohibited denial of equal protection by a state, did not give Congress power to regulate these private acts. This was because it was the result of conduct by private individuals, not state law or action, that blacks were suffering. Section five empowers Congress only to enforce the prohibition on state action. Legislation by Congress on subjects which are within the domain of the state are not authorized by the 14th Amendment. Private acts of racial discrimination were simply private wrongs that the national government was powerless to correct. Bradley commented that "individual invasion of individual rights is not the subject-matter of the [14th] Amendment. It has a deeper and broader scope. It nullifies and makes void all state legislation, and state action of every kind, which impairs the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, or which injures them in life, liberty or property without due process of law, or which denies to any of them the equal protection of the laws."
The Court also acknowledged that the 13th Amendment does apply to private actors, but only to the extent that it prohibits people from owning slaves, not exhibiting discriminatory behavior. The Court said that "it would be running the slavery argument into the ground to make it apply to every act of discrimination which a person may see fit to make as to guests he will entertain, or as to the people he will take into his coach or cab or car; or admit to his concert or theatre, or deal with in other matters of intercourse or business."
Many African-American leaders were outraged and disappointed that the Supreme Court declared the first two sections of the Civil Rights Act of 1875 to be unconstitutional. On October 20, 1883, T. Thomas Fortune, the editor of the "New York Globe" wrote: "The colored people of the United States feel to-day as if they had been baptized in ice water". Many felt it was the end of an era in which the Federal government would protect the rights of African-American citizens.
The Supreme Court decision severely restricted the power of the federal government to guarantee equal status under the law to blacks. State officials in the South took advantage of the decision and began to enact laws that legalized the treatment of blacks as second-class citizens for another seventy years. The court's decision thus ultimately led to the enactment of state laws, such as Jim Crow laws, which made racial segregation the law.

</doc>
<doc id="536462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536462" title="United States Statutes at Large">
United States Statutes at Large

The United States Statutes at Large, commonly referred to as the Statutes at Large and abbreviated Stat., is the official record of Acts of Congress and concurrent resolutions passed by the United States Congress. Each act and resolution of Congress is called a slip law, which is classified as either public law (abbreviated Pub.L.) or private law (Pvt.L.), and designated and numbered accordingly. At the end of a Congress session, slip laws (now commonly called session laws) are compiled into "Statutes at Large", which are numbered and organised by Congress session. They are part of a three-part model for publication of federal statutes consisting of slip laws, session laws ("Statutes at Large"), and codification ("United States Code").

</doc>
<doc id="536467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536467" title="Civil Rights Act of 1875">
Civil Rights Act of 1875

The Civil Rights Act of 1875 (–337), sometimes called Enforcement Act or Force Act, was a United States federal law enacted during the Reconstruction era to guarantee African Americans equal treatment in public accommodations, public transportation, and to prevent being excluded from jury duty. The bill was passed by the 43rd United States Congress and signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant on March 1, 1875. Several years later, the Supreme Court ruled in "Civil Rights Cases" (1883) that sections of the act were unconstitutional.
The drafting of the bill was done in early in 1870 by Senator Charles Sumner. It was with the assistance of John Mercer Langston, a prominent African-American who established the law department at Howard University. The bill was proposed by Senator Sumner and co-sponsored by Representative Benjamin F. Butler, both Republicans from Massachusetts, in the 41st United States Congress in 1870. The act was eventually passed by the 43rd Congress in February 1875 and signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant on March 1, 1875.
The Supreme Court, in a 8–1 decision, declared the act unconstitutional in the "Civil Rights Cases" on October 15, 1883. Justice John Marshall Harlan provided the lone dissent. The Court held the Equal Protection Clause within the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits discrimination by the state and local government, but it does not give the federal government the power to prohibit discrimination by private individuals and organizations. The Court also held that the Thirteenth Amendment was meant to eliminate "the badge of slavery," but not to prohibit racial discrimination in public accommodations. The Civil Rights Act of 1875 was the last civil rights bill to be signed into law in the United States until the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1957.
The Civil Rights Act of 1875 is notable as one of the major pieces of legislation related to Reconstruction that were passed by Congress after the American Civil War. These include the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the four Reconstruction Acts of 1867 and 1868, the three Enforcement Acts of 1870 and 1871, and the three Constitutional Amendments adopted between 1865 and 1870.
Provisions contained in the Civil Rights Act of 1875 were later adopted by Congress during the Civil Rights Movement as part of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Civil Rights Act of 1968. This legislation relied on the Commerce Clause contained in of the Constitution of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="536481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536481" title="Garner v. Louisiana">
Garner v. Louisiana

Garner v. Louisiana, , was an important civil rights case argued by Thurgood Marshall before the Supreme Court. On December 11, 1961, the court ruled that Louisiana could not convict peaceful sit-in protesters who refused to leave dining establishments under the state's "disturbing the peace" laws. 
African-American students from Southern University sat at a "whites only" segregated lunch bar at Sitman's Drugstore in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The manager called the Police after the students quietly remained even though they were asked to move to another counter. After ordering the black patrons to leave, the Police arrested them and charged them with disturbing the peace. The claim was that their behavior could "foreseeably disturb or alarm the public," according to the state's "disturbing the peace" statute.
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People defended the student demonstrators as did the Kennedy administration's Justice Department, which filed a legal brief on their behalf. 
In a 9-0 decision, the court ruled in the African-American students' favor, arguing the state violated due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment and finding there was no evidence the students' behavior could have foreseeably disturbed the peace. In his written opinion, Justice John Marshall Harlan compared sit-in demonstrations to verbal expression as a form of free speech. 
Justice William O. Douglas in his concurring opinion said, “For the police are supposed to be on the side of the Constitution, not on the side of discrimination. Yet if all constitutional questions are to be put aside and the problem treated merely in terms of disturbing the peace, I would have difficulty in reversing these judgments. I think, however, the constitutional questions must be reached and that they make reversal necessary.” 
"Garner v. Louisiana" was an important case for the Civil Rights Movement, and one of many civil rights cases argued before the Warren Court (1953-69). 
Eventually, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 "outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion or national origin in hotels, motels, restaurants, theaters, and all other public accommodations engaged in interstate commerce."

</doc>
<doc id="536483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536483" title="Federal judiciary of the United States">
Federal judiciary of the United States

The federal judiciary of the United States is one of the three co-equal branches of the Federal government of the United States organized under the United States Constitution. Article III of the Constitution requires the establishment of a Supreme Court and permits the Congress to create other federal courts, and place limitations on their jurisdiction. Article III United States federal judges are appointed by the President with the consent of the Senate to serve until they resign, are impeached and convicted, retire, or die.
The federal courts are composed of three levels of courts. The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court. It is generally an appellate court that operates under discretionary review, which means that the Court can choose which cases to hear, by granting of writs of certiorari. There is generally no right of appeal to the Supreme Court. In a few situations (like lawsuits between state governments or some cases between the federal government and a state) it sits as a court of original jurisdiction.
The United States courts of appeals are the intermediate federal appellate courts. There are 13 appellate courts that determine if the law was applied correctly in trial courts. In some cases, Congress has diverted appellate jurisdiction to specialized courts, such as the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review.
There are 94 United States district courts. These are general federal trial courts, although in many cases Congress has diverted original jurisdiction to specialized courts, such as the Court of International Trade, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the Alien Terrorist Removal Court, or to Article I or Article IV tribunals. The district courts usually have jurisdiction to hear appeals from such tribunals (unless, for example, appeals are to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.)

</doc>
<doc id="536485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536485" title="Rob Paulsen">
Rob Paulsen

Robert Fredrick Paulsen III (born March 11, 1956), known professionally as Rob Paulsen, is an American voice actor, singer and former film and television actor who has done many voice roles in various films, television shows and video games. He is best known for his roles as Pinky from "Pinky and the Brain". P.J. in "A Goofy Movie" and "Goof Troop", Carl Wheezer from "The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius", Raphael and Donatello from "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" and Dr. Otto Scratchansniff from "Animaniacs".

</doc>
<doc id="536488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536488" title="Capital punishment in the United States">
Capital punishment in the United States

Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since before the United States was a country. As of 2016, capital punishment is legal in 31 of the 50 states. The federal government (including the United States military) also uses capital punishment.
The United States is the only Western country that uses the death penalty.
Before the United States became an independent country, it was a colony of the British Empire. The first known death sentence in colonial America happened in 1608. Captain George Kendall was executed by firing squad at the Jamestown colony after being accused of spying for the Spanish government.
In colonial America, people could be executed for many things. In the Jamestown colony, the first set of rules and punishments the colony's Lieutenant Governor wrote was very strict. There were 48 different capital crimes (crimes that were punishable by death). They included:
When some colonists decided they did not like these strict rules, they ran away from the colony to live with nearby Native Americans. They were brought back to the colony, tortured, and executed.
Each of the Thirteen Colonies came up with its own death penalty laws. For example, in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, which was mostly Puritan, laws were harsh. Under its first capital punishment laws, which were effective from 1636-1647, people were executed for sodomy, adultery, witchcraft, blasphemy, bestiality, assault, rape, statutory rape, perjury in a capital trial, and murder. Later, the colony continued to execute people for witchcraft, including 20 people during the Salem Witch Trials. They also executed people for being Quakers and pirates.
Under the New York colony's Duke's Laws of 1665, a person could be executed for "denial of the one true God" or for hitting their mother or father.
Some colonies were not as strict. For example, the New Jersey colony had no death penalty, and in the Pennsylvania colony only murder and treason were capital crimes.
By 1776, most of the colonies had similar laws about the death penalty. In most colonies, the capital crimes were arson, piracy, treason, murder, sodomy, burglary, robbery, rape, stealing horses, slave rebellion, and counterfeiting (making fake money). Usually, people sentenced to death were hanged.
During the American Revolutionary War, British Major John André was hanged by the Continental Army on October 2, 1780. He was convicted of spying and helping Benedict Arnold.
The first slaves were brought to the Jamestown colony in 1619. Slavery was legal in the United States for the next 246 years, until the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution made it illegal in 1865. Until that time, slaves had no rights.
Slaves could be punished or tortured for any reason, or for no reason at all. Slaves who tried to escape or rebel were often tortured and executed where other slaves could see, to warn them not to do the same thing.
For example, in 1755, in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, a slave named Mark was accused of poisoning his "master." He was executed, then hung in chains at Boston Harbor so his body would rot. This was supposed to remind other slaves not to rebel every time they passed Mark's body. Twenty years later, when Paul Revere made his "Midnight Ride," Mark's skeleton was still hanging in chains at Boston Harbor.
During the 1700s, in the Southern colonies, an unknown number of slaves were executed, sometimes for things like hitting another slave, "fussing," or "sassing" a white person. Laws in the Southern colonies were passed allowing cruel and unusual punishments as well as capital punishment for slaves.
In the late 1700s, activists like Benjamin Rush began to argue that the death penalty should not be used. Between 1794 and 1815, eight states passed laws that made fewer crimes punishable by death. However, many southern states made more crimes punishable by death, especially for slaves.
Major reforms started to happen between 1833 and 1853. At that time, many executions were public events. By 1849, fifteen states had switched to private hangings.
In 1846, Michigan became the first state to abolish the death penalty, just after it entered the United States.
In 1852, Massachusetts's state legislature voted to allow the death penalty only for first-degree murder. The next year, Wisconsin outlawed capital punishment. In 1887, Maine's state legislature banned the death penalty.
The focus on the death penalty slowed while the country was busy with the issue of slavery and the American Civil War. However, in 1897, the United States Congress passed a law that made fewer federal crimes punishable by death. In 1911, Minnesota abolished capital punishment. Several other states also abolished the death penalty, but would start using it again later.
Between 1957 and 1973, six other states permanently abolished the death penalty:
In 1972, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in "Furman v. Georgia" that the way death penalty laws were written made them unconstitutional. They ruled that sentencing rules were discriminatory, because black people got sentenced to death more often than whites for the same crimes. Because of this, the death penalty was cruel and unusual punishment, which violated the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution. This ruling stopped all executions in the country. Between 1972 and 1976, there were no executions in the United States.
However, by early 1975, thirty states had passed new death penalty laws that they thought would satisfy the Supreme Court. They did. In "Gregg v. Georgia" (1976), the Supreme Court ruled that Georgia's new death penalty law was constitutional. It ruled that capital punishment was not always cruel and unusual punishment, as long as it was done fairly. This meant that states could start executing people again, as long as they had rewritten their death penalty laws like Georgia did, to say that the death penalty would be applied fairly. In 1977, executions began again in the United States.
In two major cases, the Supreme Court has limited who may be executed. In "Atkins v. Virginia" (2002), the Court decided that executing people with intellectual disabilities is cruel and unusual punishment, and is against the Eighth Amendment. Before this decision, between 1984 and 1992, forty-four people with intellectual disabilities were executed in the United States.
Also, in "Roper v. Simmons" (2005), the Supreme Court made it illegal to execute a person who was younger than 18 when they committed their crime.
In 2004, two researchers named M. Watt Espy and John Ortiz Smykia put together a list of executions that became known as "The ESPY File." The Espy File says that between 1608 and 1991, in the American colonies and then the United States, 15,269 people were executed. The Espy File is "the most often cited and used list of America's legal executions." However, in a 2011 study, two researchers criticized The Espy File. They wrote that researchers should not use the File as a complete source of information about executions.
According to the United States Department of Justice, between 1930 and 2002, the United States executed 4,679 people. About two-thirds of these people (about 3,100 people) were executed between 1930 and 1950.
Between 1916 and 1955, the United States military executed 135 soldiers. The military has not executed anyone since 1955.
Throughout American history, different methods of execution have been used. During colonial times, cruel and painful methods like burning or crushing people to death were sometimes used. However, since 1776, all but a few executions have been carried out in one of five ways: hanging, firing squad, the electric chair, the gas chamber, or lethal injection.
Since the Bill of Rights was added to the United States Constitution in 1791, "cruel and unusual punishment" has been against the law in the United States. This means that even if a person commits a terrible crime, the Constitution says their punishment cannot be painful or cause suffering on purpose.
Until the beginning of the 20th century, hanging was the most common method of execution in the United States.
However, hanging did not always work the way it was supposed to. If the rope and noose were not put in the correct position, a person could be decapitated. If the rope was not long enough, the person could slowly die of strangulation. People started looking for more 'civilized' ways to execute people.
After Thomas Edison discovered direct current (DC) electricity in 1882, his company showed how powerful it was by using it to kill animals. The idea of using electricity to kill humans grew out of this. New York built the first electric chair, and first used it to execute a prisoner on August 6, 1890. Other states also adopted the electric chair as a method of execution, believing that it was a less painful way to die than hanging.
However, it became clear, even to some members of the Supreme Court, that dying in an electric chair was very painful. Also, even up until the 1990s, electric chairs would work incorrectly, causing prisoners to catch fire or be awake while they were being electrocuted. Around the 1980s, most states began to use lethal injection instead.
Still looking for a more "humane" methods of execution, in 1924, Nevada prison officials tried to secretly pump cyanide gas into death row prisoner Gee Jon's cell to kill him while he slept. This did not work, and they had to build a gas chamber. On February 8, 1924, Jon became the first person to be executed by gas chamber.
From 1924 to 1972, the United States executed about 600 people in gas chambers. Most states used hydrogen cyanide gas. However, by the mid-1970s and 1980s, many people had started to criticize the use of gas chambers. Death from hydrogen cyanide poisoning can be long and painful, and in some executions, prisoners suffered long deaths. After one of these executions, a federal court in California ruled that "execution by lethal gas under the California protocol is unconstitutionally cruel and unusual punishment."
Also, according to sociologist Clifton Bryant, the way it is used in the United States, "the gas chamber is ... the most dangerous, most complicated, and most expensive method of administering the death penalty." By the late 20th century, most states had switched to using lethal injection.
In the 1970s, Oklahoma passed the first law that allowed executions by lethal injection. This was a practical decision: Oklahoma's old electric chair would need expensive repairs, and building a gas chamber would cost over $200,000. However, executing a person by lethal injection would only cost $10 to $15 per person. Lethal injection grew more and more popular in death penalty states. It was viewed as less painful, with less suffering, than the electric chair or gas chamber. Texas was the first state to execute someone by lethal injection, in 1982. Over the next 30 years, all of the death penalty states passed laws making lethal injection their first-choice (or only) method of execution.
However, in the 2010s, American prisons started having trouble getting enough of the medications used to carry out lethal injections. The states had been using three medications for lethal injections:
Then, in 2011, Hospira, the only American company that made sodium thiopental, stopped making the drug. The European Union makes other anesthetics, like propofol. However, since the European Union is against the death penalty, they made it illegal to export any product that could be used in an execution. Another anesthetic, pentobarbital, is also only made in the European Union, and the company that makes it has put limits on selling it to U.S. government customers. A few states have tried mixtures of other drugs, but those executions have not gone well.
As of 2016, many death penalty states have temporarily stopped using lethal injection until they can find a solution to this problem.
As of January 1, 2016, fifteen states have laws that allow them to use a method of execution other than lethal injection. Before the lethal injection drug shortages, these other methods were rarely used. From 1976 to March 23, 2016, there were 1,431 executions:
However, since they stopped being able to get lethal injection drugs, some states have thought about going back to other methods of execution. Here are the states whose laws allow them to use other methods, as of January 1, 2016:
This table shows the death penalty laws in each of the states; Washington, D.C.; the federal government; and the United States military, as of January 1, 2016. Under the category "Status," there are four possibilities:
Click on the little triangle at the top of each header box to sort the information in this table by a certain category.
In some areas, prosecutors ask for the death penalty, and judges grant the death penalty, more often than in other areas. Also, once people are convicted and are on "death row," how quickly they are executed depends on the state they are in. On average, in 2004, death penalty states had executed about 10% of the people on their "death rows." However, California had executed only 1% of its prisoners who are sentenced to death. Texas executed 40% of theirs.
On of the controversies about the death penalty is whether it is given unequally to people of different races.
In a report in 1983, David Baldus and others wrote a famous report that looked at whether the death penalty was applied equally to people of different races in Georgia. They found that:
In 1987, the Supreme Court decided a case called "McCleskey v. Kemp". McCleskey's lawyers showed that in Georgia, where McCleskey lived, black people convicted of killing whites were four times more likely to get the death penalty than people convicted of killing non-whites. The Supreme Court accepted this, but ruled against McCleskey. They wrote: "[inequalities] in sentencing are an inevitable part of our criminal justice system." Since then, judges have not allowed lawyers to argue that racial bias plays a part in the death penalty.
Anti-death penalty groups like Amnesty International say:
The United States Department of Justice says that between 1980 and 2008, African Americans committed 52.5% of the murders in the United States; whites committed 45.3%; and Native Americans and Asians committed 2.2%. This means African Americans are less likely to be executed on a per capita basis. The Department of Justice also says that as of 2009, Hispanic or Latino people make up 17.4% of the United States population, but only 13.5% of death row prisoners.
A 2012 study found that non-white soldiers in the United States military are twice as likely as white soldiers to be given the death penalty. Of the 16 soldiers the military has sentenced to death between 1985 and 2012, 10 (62.5%) were non-whites, one of the study's authors said.
The death penalty is definitely given much more often to men than women. As of October 1, 2014:
The University of Michigan Law School keeps a list of people who have been exonerated from death row. The list counts "exonerations" as cases where "a person who has been convicted of a crime is officially cleared based on new evidence of innocence."
According to the list, between 1989 and 2015, 116 people have been exonerated from death row. The most common reasons why these people were exonerated were:
DNA evidence proved that 25 of these people about 22% were innocent of the crimes they were sentenced to death for.
Of the 116 people who were exonerated, 62 (about 53%) were black, 43 (37%) were white, 9 (8%) were Hispanic, and two were members of other races (2%). In the 88 cases where a government official abused their power, 51 of the exonerated people (about 58%) were black; 29 were Caucasian (33%); and 8 (9%) were Hispanic. Seventeen of the 31 people who received an "inadequate legal defense" (about 55%) were black; 12 (about 39%) were white; and two (about 6%) were Hispanic.
The death penalty is a very controversial topic in the United States. People have argued about it since before the Thirteen Colonies became the United States. There are many different arguments for and against the death penalty. This list does not include all of them, just some of the most common ones.
People who do not agree with the death penalty (death penalty "opponents") say our trial system is not perfect. Judges and juries make mistakes. One study done by Columbia Law School found that there were serious mistakes in two-thirds of all capital trials. In these trials, the defendants were sentenced to death anyway. However, when their cases were appealed, over 80% of the defendants were not sentenced to death; 7% were found not guilty.
Opponents argue that because mistakes are so common in capital trials, people can be executed even though they were innocent. As proof, they point the 116 people who were exonerated from death row between 1989 and 2015.
People who support the death penalty (death penalty "supporters") say that mistakes are very rare, especially since new laws were made in the 1970s to add protections for death row inmates. For example, Steve Stewart, Deputy Prosecuting Attorney for the Clark County, Indiana, Fourth Judicial Court, says:
Death penalty supporters say that capital punishment is a "deterrent". This means that people are scared of the death penalty and are less likely to commit a capital crime if they know they could get the death penalty.
Supporters also argue that the next most serious punishment for capital crimes is life in prison. In some states, this means the person could be let out of prison someday. Also, even being in prison for life does not keep killers from killing more people in prison. Executing people is the only way to make sure they will never kill another person.
Opponents argue that nobody has ever proved that capital punishment is more of a deterrent than a long prison sentence. They point out that most states and countries that do not have the death penalty have lower murder rates than death penalty states. They also say that the death penalty is not a deterrent because people often commit murders when they are very upset and are not thinking about what might happen in the future.
Among scholars and researchers, there is no agreement about whether capital punishment is more of a deterrent than any other punishment. Some researchers have done studies that say the death penalty is a deterrent. Other studies have found that the death penalty is not a deterrent in the United States, or in other countries.
Opponents argue that defendants who are poor and/or non-white are more likely to get the death penalty than whites, even if they have committed the same crimes. Supporters say that opponents misuse statistics and exaggerate the situation. For more information, see the section on Sentencing: Among races farther up on this page.
Death penalty debaters argue about whether capital punishment is "cruel and unusual punishment" (which would be unconstitutional). Even the people on the Supreme Court have disagreed on this issue. In 2004, the Court ruled in "Baze v. Rice" that even if an execution causes pain, that does not make it cruel and unusual. However, in his dissenting opinion in "Gregg v. Georgia", Justice William Brennan wrote that the death penalty is "an unusually severe punishment, unusual in its pain... [it] is today a cruel and unusual punishment prohibited by the ... Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments."
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), an anti-death penalty group, adds that capital punishment is "unusual" because:
Religion plays a complicated role in death penalty arguments. To support the death penalty, some people quote from the Old Testament of the Bible, which says: "An eye for an eye, a life for a life." This means that if you take a life, you should pay with your own life. However, others use parts of the New Testament, where Jesus talks about forgiveness and nonviolence, to oppose the death penalty. They say that no one has the right to take a life but God even if that person has taken a life himself.
In 1999, a group of Jewish rabbis and Catholic Bishops had this to say:
Opponents also point out:

</doc>
<doc id="536495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536495" title="Category:Jerome County, Idaho">
Category:Jerome County, Idaho


</doc>
<doc id="536502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536502" title="Biological half-life">
Biological half-life

A half life of a substance is the amount of time it takes to decay into half of its activity. Usually, this refers to the body's getting rid of a substance. This happens by the function of kidneys and liver as well as excretion.

</doc>
<doc id="536503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536503" title="Der Barbier von Bagdad">
Der Barbier von Bagdad

Der Barbier von Bagdad ("The Barber of Baghdad"), is an German comic opera with music and libretto by Peter Cornelius. based on The Tale of the Tailor and The Barber’s Stories of his Six Brothers in One Thousand and One Nights. It was first performed in Weimar, on December 15, 1858. By far Cornelius' most successful work and his only opera still regularly performed.

</doc>
<doc id="536510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536510" title="Marcelo Martins Moreno">
Marcelo Martins Moreno

Marcelo Martins Moreno (born 18 June 1987 in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia), known as Marcelo Martins or Marcelo Moreno, is a Bolivian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Chinese Super League club Changchun Yatai and the Bolivia national football team.

</doc>
<doc id="536522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536522" title="CRISPR">
CRISPR

CRISPR is a term used in microbiology. It stands for Clustered Regularly-Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. These are a natural segment of the genetic code found in prokaryotes: most bacteria and archaea have it.
CRISPR has a lot of short repeated sequences. These sequences are part of an adaptive immune system for prokaryotes. It allows them to remember and counter other organisms that prey on them, such as bacteriophages.
They have the potential to modify the genes of almost any organism. They are part of a tool that allows precisely targeted cutting and insertion of genes in genetic modification (GM). Work is under way to find how they can be used to attack virus diseases in humans. 
Each repetition is followed by short segments of "spacer DNA" from previous exposures to a bacterial virus or plasmid. CRISPR spacers recognize and cut up the foreign genetic elements in a manner like RNA interference in eukaryotic organisms.
In effect, the spacers are fragments of DNA from viruses that have previously tried to attack the cell line. The foreign source of the spacers was a sign to researchers that the CRISPR/cas system could have a role in adaptive immunity in bacteria.
The actual cutting is done by a nuclease called "Cas9". "Cas9" has two active cutting sites, one for each strand of the DNA's double helix. "Cas9" does this by unwinding foreign DNA and checking whether it is complementary to the 20 basepair spacer region of the guide RNA (the spacer region RNA). If it is, the foreign DNA gets chopped up.
The technology has been used to switch off genes in human cell lines and cells, to study "Candida albicans", to modify yeasts used to make biofuel and to genetically modify crop strains.

</doc>
<doc id="536527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536527" title="Tayap">
Tayap

Tayap is a small village in Cameroon. It is from Yaoundé, the capital city. It is from Douala, the biggest city of the country.
The climate is equatorial. It is usually hot, . It is often wet. There are four different seasons. 
In 2005, 272 people lived in Tayap. The village has a primary school. It has 4 classrooms. 
Most people work in agriculture. They produce manioc, bananas, oranges, mangoes, vegetables, peanuts, cocoa and palm oil.
The village is surrounded by a large forest but deforestation is a major problem in this area.
Since 2011 Tayap focuses on biodiversity and ecology. It tries to develop new activities such as tourism.

</doc>
<doc id="536540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536540" title="Ordinary least squares">
Ordinary least squares

Ordinary least squares or linear least squares is a method for estimating unknown parameters in statistics. It is a method used in linear regression: The aim of the method is to minimize the difference between the observed responses and the responses predicted by the linear approximation of the data. A smaller difference means that model fits the data better. Ordinary least squares is a special case of a method commonly called least squares. The resulting estimator can be expressed by a simple formula.

</doc>
<doc id="536551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536551" title="Justice of the peace">
Justice of the peace

A justice of the peace (JP) is a judicial officer, elected or appointed to a local court that has limited jurisdiction. In some locations a JP deals with traffic violations, parking tickets and may have the authority to perform marriages ceremonies. In many places they are the entry-level courts that most criminal cases pass through. JP courts were popular in early history, but are now found mostly in rural areas. Otherwise people would have to travel longer distances to other courts of law.
In 1195, a proclamation of Richard I of England local knights were appointed to keep order. In 1264, "Keepers of the Peace were appointed in every county to serve the king. Such men were called "Justice of the Peace" beginning in about 1362. When colonists came to British North America they brought with them the common law system that included JPs. In France, "Lords of the Court" administered justice. After 1789, justices of the peace were elected. 
While the requirements vary from one jurisdiction to another, generally, to become a JP there are few if any educational requirements. An application is filled out and usually there is a fee. Justices may be chosen by their qualifications and references. Many have law degrees while others may have taken a few law classes.

</doc>
<doc id="536555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536555" title="Garry Shandling">
Garry Shandling

Garry Emmanuel Shandling (November 29, 1949 – March 24, 2016) was an American comedian, actor, writer, producer and director. He was best known for his work in "It's Garry Shandling's Show" and "The Larry Sanders Show".
Shandling was born Garry Emmanuel Shandling in Chicago, Illinois on November 29, 1949. He was raised in Tucson, Arizona. He studied at the University of Arizona.
Shandling began his career in 1975. He started writing for sitcoms such as "Sanford and Son" and "Welcome Back, Kotter". He began his career in comedy when he was on "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" and was on the show many times. 
Shandling was for a thought to replace Carson (other hopefuls were Joan Rivers, David Letterman and David Brenner). In 1986 he created "It's Garry Shandling's Show", for the pay cable channel Showtime. It was nominated for four Emmy Awards (including one for Shandling) and lasted until 1990. His second show, "The Larry Sanders Show", which began airing on HBO in 1992, was even more successful. 
Shandling was nominated for 18 Emmy Awards for the show and won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series in 1998, along with Peter Tolan, for writing the series finale. In movies Shandling had a the same role as Senator Stern in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, appearing in "Iron Man 2" and "", as well as a voice in DreamWorks Animation's "Over the Hedge".
His last movies were "" (2015) and "The Jungle Book" (2016).
Shandling was in a relationship with Linda Doucett from 1987 through 1994. He lived in Los Angeles, California. 
Shandling died in Los Angeles from a blood clot in the heart caused by thrombosis in his leg on March 24, 2016. He was aged 66.
During his career, Shandling was nominated for 19 Primetime Emmy Awards and two Golden Globe Awards, along with many other awards and nominations. He served as host of the Grammy Awards four times and as host of the Emmy Awards three times.

</doc>
<doc id="536556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536556" title="Abu Ala al-Afri">
Abu Ala al-Afri

Abd al-Rahman Mustafa al-Qaduli (1957/1959 – 25 March 2016) (), alternatively known as Abu Ala al-Afri () was the Deputy leader of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. He was said to become leader of the group after Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was severely injured by an airstrike.
On 14 May 2014, Abu Ala al-Afri was listed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist by the U.S Treasury Department. On 5 May 2015, the U.S. State Department announced a reward of up to US$7 million for information leading to al-Afri's capture or death.
The U.S. Pentagon announced his death from an airstrike on 25 March 2016 in Syria, correcting previous Iraqi claims.

</doc>
<doc id="536565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536565" title="Category:Writers from Arizona">
Category:Writers from Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="536566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536566" title="Category:Actors from Tucson, Arizona">
Category:Actors from Tucson, Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="536570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536570" title="Mount Kenya">
Mount Kenya

Mount Kenya is the highest mountain in Kenya. It is high. It is the second highest mountain in Africa. It is an extinct volcano. It is on the equator. It is northeast of Nairobi.

</doc>
<doc id="536571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536571" title="Flame fougasse">
Flame fougasse

A flame fougasse (fougasse or foo gas) is a type of mine or improvised explosive device. It uses an explosive charge to put burning liquid onto a target.
The flame fougasse was developed in Britain as an anti-tank weapon in the World War II invasion crisis of 1940. During that period, about 50,000 flame fougasse barrels were put in some 7,000 batteries. Most were in southern England and some in Scotland. Although never used in combat in Britain, the design saw action later in Greece.

</doc>
<doc id="536573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536573" title="Category:Comedians from Arizona">
Category:Comedians from Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="536575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536575" title="Fougasse">
Fougasse

Fougasse may mean

</doc>
<doc id="536577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536577" title="Category:LGBT people from Arizona">
Category:LGBT people from Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="536578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536578" title="Category:Entertainers from Tucson, Arizona">
Category:Entertainers from Tucson, Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="536592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536592" title="Katzenbach v. McClung">
Katzenbach v. McClung

Katzenbach v. McClung, 379 U.S. 294 (1964), is a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court. The Court held that Congress acted within its power under the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution in forbidding racial discrimination in restaurants as this was a burden to interstate commerce. The ruling was a 9–0 decision in favor of the plaintiff—the United States government. It was also a test case of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In particular, 
Ollie's Barbecue was a family-owned restaurant that operated in Birmingham, Alabama, that seated 220 customers. It was located on a state highway and was 11 city blocks from an interstate highway. In a typical year, approximately half of the food it purchased from a local supplier came from out-of-state. It catered to local families and white-collar workers. However, they refused to serve African American customers in the restaurant. About 24 of the 36 employees of the restaurant were black.
Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 outlawing segregation in American schools and public places. One section of the act, Title II, was specifically intended to grant African-Americans full access to public facilities such as hotels, restaurants, and public recreation areas. On the same day, the Supreme Court heard challenges to Title II from a motel owner and from Ollie McClung. Both claimed that the federal government had no right to impose any regulations on small, private businesses. Both ultimately lost. Ollie McClung had won in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama when he received an injunction preventing the Government from enforcing Title II against his restaurant. But then U.S. Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, appealed this decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.
McClung argued that the Civil Rights Act was unconstitutional, at least as applied to a small, private business such as his. McClung further argued that the amount of food purchased by Ollie's that actually crossed state lines (about half of the food at Ollie's) was so small that Ollie's effectively had no effect on interstate commerce (although McClung admitted that a significant amount of Ollie's business was to interstate travelers). Because of this, McClung argued that Congress had no power to regulate Ollie's Barbecue under the Commerce Clause.
The court ruled unanimously that the Civil Rights Act is constitutional and that it was properly applied against Ollie's Barbecue.
Justice Clark wrote the majority opinion, with concurrences by Justices Black, Douglas, and Goldberg. In section 2 of the opinion, the Court agreed with McClung that Ollie's itself had virtually no effect on interstate commerce. In section 4 of the opinion, the Court held that racial discrimination in restaurants had a significant impact on interstate commerce, and therefore Congress has the power to regulate this conduct under the Commerce Clause. The Court's conclusion was based on extensive Congressional hearings on the issue. 
After decades in operation, Ollie's Barbecue moved to the suburb of Pelham in 1999 and closed in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="536596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536596" title="Case citation">
Case citation

Case citation is a system used by legal professionals to identify past court case decisions. These are found either in series of books called reporters or law reports, or in a neutral style that identifies a decision regardless of where it is reported. Case citations are formatted differently in different jurisdictions, but generally contain the same key information.
A legal citation is a "reference to a legal precedent or authority, such as a case, statute, or work, that either agrees with or contradicts a given position". Where cases are published on paper, the citation usually contains the following information:
In some report series, for example in England and Australia, volumes are not numbered independently of the year. So the year and volume number (usually no greater than 4) are required to identify which book of the series has the case reported within its covers. In such citations, it is usual in these jurisdictions to apply square brackets "" to the year (which may not be the year that the case was decided, For example, a case decided in December 2001 may have been reported in 2002).
The Internet brought with it the opportunity for courts to publish their decisions on websites. Decisions of many courts from all over the world can now be found through the website WorldLII and its member institutes.
Most court decisions are not published on paper. The large number of court decisions found online resulted in a flood of information. The result was that a medium-neutral citation system was adopted. This usually contains the following information:
Rather than utilizing page numbers for "pinpoint references", which would depend upon particular printers and browsers, pinpoint quotations refer to paragraph numbers.
The conjunction "versus" is abbreviated to "v" in Commonwealth countries and to "v." in the United States.
In common law countries with an adversarial system of justice, the names of the opposing parties are separated in the case title by the abbreviation "v." The abbreviation represents the Latin word "versus", which means "against". When case titles are read out loud, the "v." can be pronounced, depending on the context, as "and", "against", "versus", or "vee".

</doc>
<doc id="536599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536599" title="Barisal Zilla School">
Barisal Zilla School

Barisal Zilla School is a boys school located in Barisal, Bangladesh. It is one of the oldest and top ranked high schools in the country and the first high school in Barisal Division.
It was founded by an Englishman, N. W. Garret, on 23 December 1829 with only 8 students. Now it has more than two thousand students.
Barisal Zilla School produced many leading local reformers, politicians, statesmen, educationists, philosophers, poets-writers, and sportsmen. Those notable persons include:

</doc>
<doc id="536613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536613" title="Boynton v. Virginia">
Boynton v. Virginia

Boynton v. Virginia, , was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States. On December 20, 1958, Bruce Boynton, a senior at Howard Law School, left Washington, D.C. on a bus to go home for Christmas to Montgomery, Alabama. At the bus terminal in Richmond, Virginia he entered the restaurant and sat in the "white only" section. For refusing to leave, he was arrested and convicted for violating a Virginia statute making it illegal for anyone "without authority of law" to remain after being forbidden to do so. He then appealed the conviction to the Supreme Court of Virginia. He maintained “that his conviction violated the Interstate Commerce Act and the Equal Protection, Due Process and Commerce Clauses of the Federal Constitution.” But the state Supreme Court upheld his conviction.He next petitioned the United States Supreme Court for certiorari. The U.S. Supreme Court reversed the conviction of the lower court. The Court held that Boynton “had a federal right to remain in the white portion of the restaurant” as the Interstate Commerce Act “forbids any interstate common carrier by motor vehicle to subject any person to unjust discrimination.” Justice Hugo Black delivered the majority opinion.
The court ruled in a 7-2 decision in favor of Boynton. It held that interstate passengers were protected by the Interstate Commerce Act and the terminal's restaurant was a part of that facility. In part the decision read: 
Justices Tom C. Clark and Charles Evans Whittaker dissented in the 7-2 decision. It was the first time since 1946 the court had split over matters of racial segregation. 
"Boynton v. Virginia" paved the way and inspired the Freedom Riders to test the new ruling. Black and white riders rode together on Southern racially segregated buses beginning in 1961. After six months of protests and press coverage of the Freedom Riders, The Interstate Commerce Commission outlawed racial discrimination in seating passengers on interstate busses. It ordered the removal of "whites only" signs from all interstate bus terminals. 

</doc>
<doc id="536642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536642" title="Gregg v. Georgia">
Gregg v. Georgia

Gregg v. Georgia, "Proffitt v. Florida", "Jurek v. Texas", "Woodson v. North Carolina", and "Roberts v. Louisiana", were a group of landmark cases that the United States Supreme Court decided together in 1976. They had to do with capital punishment in the United States.
In these cases, the Court ruled that the states could use capital punishment (the death penalty), but only if they followed certain rules. If the states did not follow these rules when they sentenced people to death, they would be violating the Constitution of the United States by giving out a cruel and unusual punishment.
In 1972, the Court had ruled that the way Georgia was using the death penalty was unconstitutional. After this decision, all of the states stopped using the death penalty while they changed their capital punishment laws. Because of this, there were no executions in the United States between 1972 and 1976.
However, in "Gregg v. Georgia", the Court ruled that Georgia's new death penalty law was constitutional, and they gave the state permission to execute Troy Leon Gregg. This ended the temporary stop on executions in the United States. It made it clear to the states that as long as they followed the rules set out in the "Gregg" decision, they could start using the death penalty again.
The "Gregg" case happened because of another Supreme Court case called "Furman v. Georgia," which the Court decided In 1972. In this case, three different men who had been sentenced to death argued that Georgia was giving them a cruel and unusual punishment. This is against the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution, which makes cruel and unusual punishments illegal.
The Supreme Court agreed that when Georgia gave the death penalty to these three men, the state violated the Eighth Amendment. Different Supreme Court Justices said Georgia's death penalty was 'cruel and unusual' for different reasons.
Some Justices said that Georgia's use of the death penalty was "arbitrary." This meant that Georgia's courts gave the death penalty to some people and not to others, even when they committed the same crime, for no good reason.
Other Justices said Georgia's use of the death penalty was "discriminatory". They wrote that black defendants seemed more likely to get the death penalty than whites. This would violate the Fourteenth Amendment, which says that the states must give every person "the equal protection of the laws." If a certain group, like black people, is more likely to get the death penalty just because of their race, they are not being treated equally under the laws.
After "Furman", all of the states stopped using the death penalty so they could change their capital punishment laws. They wanted these new laws to make sure the death penalty would not be given in an arbitrary or discriminatory way. By early 1975, thirty states had passed new death penalty laws that they thought would satisfy the Supreme Court and let them use the death penalty in a constitutional way.
"Gregg" started out as five separate cases in five different states: "Gregg v. Georgia", "Proffitt v. Florida", "Jurek v. Texas", "Woodson v. North Carolina", and "Roberts v. Louisiana".
After the "Furman" decision, the states of Georgia, Florida, Texas, North Carolina, and Louisiana changed their death penalty laws to obey the Supreme Court's decision in "Furman". After this, the five defendants in these cases Troy Leon Gregg, Charles William Proffitt, Jerry Jurek, James Tyrone Woodson, and Stanislaus Roberts were each convicted of murder. Each was sentenced to death. Each defendant appealed to their state's Supreme Court. Each of the five state Supreme Courts said the death sentences were fair and legal.
Next, the defendants asked the United States Supreme Court to decide whether their death sentences were constitutional. In "Furman", the Court had ruled that the death penalty was "sometimes" cruel and unusual punishment. These five defendants were asking the Supreme Court to rule that the death penalty was "always" cruel and unusual punishment. If the Court ruled this way, it would make the death penalty unconstitutional in the entire United States. The death penalty would be illegal in every state in the country.
The Supreme Court agreed to hear the cases, but they combined them all into one case. This one case is usually called "Gregg v. Georgia", because the entire name of the case is very long.
The United States Supreme Court was trying to answer a few legal questions in "Gregg". The most important were:
The Court ruled 7-2 that the death penalty is not always cruel and unusual punishment. (The two Justices who disagreed, William Brennan and Thurgood Marshall, had already said in "Furman" that they thought capital punishment was "always" cruel and unusual.)
The Court set out two rules that state laws have to include to make sure their death penalty sentencing laws are constitutional:
Specifically, the Court said that Georgia's, Florida's, and Texas's new death penalty laws met these requirements. This meant these laws were constitutional, and these states could go back to executing people. 
The Court ruled that North Carolina's and Louisiana's new laws did not meet the requirements, because they made the death penalty mandatory (required in all cases) for some crimes. This meant these laws were still unconstitutional.
The Supreme Court's ruling in "Gregg" was important for several reasons:

</doc>
<doc id="536653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536653" title="Proof-of-work system">
Proof-of-work system

A proof-of-work (POW) system is a system where finding a solution to a given problem is difficult and/or expensive, but verifying the solution to the given problem is simple and/or cheap. 
Find the positive integer whose sha256 hash value is:
To find this integer, you must compute the sha256 value for every integer starting with zero until you find the right value. While each individual computation is trivial and cheap, cumulatively the work adds up and becomes time consuming and expensive. To successfully reproduce the given hash value, you must do some work.
Find some data whose sha256 hash value begins with at least 8 leading zeros:
In the first example, the problem required the original value as proof that work had been done. In this example, it does not matter what the data is, only that it produces a hash value with the given constraints. Finding this data is difficult, but once found, it is trivial to verify by running it through sha256.

</doc>
<doc id="536662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536662" title="Category:Barisal">
Category:Barisal


</doc>
<doc id="536665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536665" title="University of Barisal">
University of Barisal

University of Barisal ( also known as Barisal University or simply BU), is a public university located in Barisal, a city in southern Bangladesh. It is the only general public university in Barisal division and the country's 33rd public university. It was established in 2011 and started educational activities on 25 January 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="536667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536667" title="Ineffective assistance of counsel (United States)">
Ineffective assistance of counsel (United States)

Ineffective assistance of counsel means that a lawyer (counsel) did not help their client defend themselves during a trial. "Ineffective assistance of counsel" is a complaint that a person can make if they have been convicted of a crime, and they want to argue that their trial was not fair. 
"Ineffective" means that something, or someone, did not work the way it should have. "Assistance" means "help." "Counsel" is a legal word for "lawyer." So by making a complaint of "ineffective assistance of counsel," a person is saying "my defense attorney did not help me enough."
The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution says: "the accused shall enjoy the right ... to have the assistance of counsel for his defence." When a person says they had ineffectiveness of counsel, they are saying their lawyer was so bad that they did not receive this right to a lawyer. 
Unfortunately, the Sixth Amendment only said that people had the right to have a lawyer. It did not give any more details about this right. Here are some examples of things it did not say:
The Supreme Court tried to answer some of these questions in a case called "Strickland v. Washington", . In this case, the court ruled that there were two things a defendant would have to show in order to prove that they had ineffective assistance of counsel. This became known as the "Strickland test":
This second part was important. After "Stirickland", the states' appeals courts ruled that convictions were legal even in cases where the defense attorney:
There was an important reason why these cases did not qualify as "ineffective assistance of counsel." The prisoners who brought the cases to the Supreme Court could not prove the second piece of the "Strickland test." They could not prove that if they had different lawyers, their trials would have turned out differently. There was so much evidence against them, and they were so obviously guilty, that the appeals courts decided having a different lawyer would not have made any difference. No lawyer could have saved these cases, the state courts basically said.
The issue of ineffective counsel is important in the debate over capital punishment in the United States. The University of Michigan Law School keeps a list of people who have been exonerated from death row. The list counts "exonerations" as cases where "a person who has been convicted of a crime is officially cleared based on new evidence of innocence."
According to the list, between 1989 and 2015, 116 people have been exonerated from death row. Over one out of every four of these people were exonerated because an appeals court ruled they had received ineffective assistance of counsel.

</doc>
<doc id="536669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536669" title="Barisal Sadar Upazila">
Barisal Sadar Upazila

Barisal Sadar () is an Upazila of Barisal District in the Division of Barisal, Bangladesh.
The population of Barisal Sadar Upazila is 527,017. Males are 52.72% of the population, and females 47.28%. The population density is about 1625 people per km².

</doc>
<doc id="536670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536670" title="Peristalsis">
Peristalsis

Peristalsis is a process of contraction and relaxation of the muscle around parts of the alimentary canal.
The most familiar example of this is in the oesophagus. In the oesophagus, peristalsis pushes the ball of food down the oesophagus. The smooth muscle of the oesophagus contracts and relaxes in sequence, and this pushes the ball of food down the oesophagus.
The muscle is worked by a nervous mechanism called the "migrating motor complex". This works in one direction only, and also works in the lower regions of the digestive system.

</doc>
<doc id="536678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536678" title="Institut supérieur de l'aéronautique et de l'espace">
Institut supérieur de l'aéronautique et de l'espace

Institut supérieur de l'aéronautique et de l'espace (ISAE-SUPAERO) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Toulouse (South France).
Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :
Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a lot of nationalities participate to the different curricula at SUPAERO.
Most of the 1600 graduate engineer students at ISAE-SUPAERO live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports.
The school results from the "École nationale supérieure de l'aéronautique et de l'espace" (created In 1909) and the "École nationale supérieure d'ingénieurs de construction aéronautique" (created in 1946).
Admission to the "Supaero engineering Programme" implemented at ISAE is possible after two/three year scientific undergraduate studies and requires success to either: 
The "Supaero Programme" typically lasts three years and results in a Master degree, augmented with international experience. Thus undergraduate studies + the Supaero Programme account for more than a cumulated 300 ECTS credits as applicable in the European education system.
However, graduate students enrolled in the TIME double degree procedure are required to spend two-years at ISAE and spend two years in the TIME-partner institute for a total of four years resulting in a double master degree.
Research activities at ISAE relate to the following topics:

</doc>
<doc id="536679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536679" title="Category:2010s superhero movies">
Category:2010s superhero movies


</doc>
<doc id="536681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536681" title="Category:2010s in Belgium">
Category:2010s in Belgium


</doc>
<doc id="536684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536684" title="Libertarian Party (Spain)">
Libertarian Party (Spain)

The Libertarian Party (Spanish: Partido Libertario or P-LIB) is a Spanish political party. It was formed in 2009. It is currently led by Juan Pina.
The party believes in classical liberalism and that government should stay out of economics. They also believe in objectivism. They believethat governments should only be able to protect people from violence, theft, fraud, and other actions that go against people's rights. The party is open to some more libertarian and anarcho-capitalism ideas. There are two groups within the party; the Objectivist and Radicals. Most party members aren't involved with these groups.
The party took part in the 2011 Spanish general election in Madrid and Zaragoza. They received about 7,000 votes to the Senate and over 2,000 (0.01 %) to the Congress.

</doc>
<doc id="536685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536685" title="Category:Libertarian parties">
Category:Libertarian parties


</doc>
<doc id="536692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536692" title="European Canadian">
European Canadian

European Canadians (sometimes called Euro-Canadians) are Canadians with ancestry from Europe. As of 2011, there were 25,186,890 European Canadians in Canada.
The French were the first Europeans to live in Canada permanently. Hélène Desportes was the first "white" person born in New France. She was born in 1620.
In 2006, most European Canadians had English ancestry (21.03%). Other common ancestries were French (15.82%), Scottish (15.11%), Irish (13.94%), German (10.18%) then Italian (4.63%). However, 32.22% of people said they had Canadian ancestry. Because of this, some people think the numbers for the English and French ancestry are too low.
Most European Canadians are Christian. A small number of them are Jews, Deists, Agnostics, Atheists, Muslims, Bahá'ís, Paganists/Wiccas and Unitarian Universalists. Most also speak English and French.

</doc>
<doc id="536693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536693" title="Latin American Canadians">
Latin American Canadians

Latin American Canadians are Canadians with ancestry from Latin America. They may also be called "Latino Canadian" and "Latin Canadian". As of 2011, there were 381,280 Latin American Canadians in Canada.
Most Latin American Canadians speak two or more languages. They usually speak Spanish and/or Portuguese along with English and French.
A lot of Latin American Canadians came to Canada in the late 20th century. They came to Canada because it has better economic opportunities than their native country. Some Cubans came to Canada to escape Fidel Castro's regime. Other Latino Americans left their country because Canada offered freedom from war.
In 2011, most Latin American Canadians had Mexican ancestry (18.6%). Other common ancestries were Colombian (16.2%), Salvadoran (11.7%), Peruvian (7.1%), Chilean (6.7%) and Brazilian (6.1%).
Almost all Latino American Canadians are Christian.

</doc>
<doc id="536701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536701" title="Roper v. Simmons">
Roper v. Simmons

Roper v. Simmons, , was a landmark decision of the United States Supreme Court. The Court ruled that it is unconstitutional to execute a person for crimes they committed before they were 18 years old. This decision affected 25 states in the country, which still allowed executions of children under age 18. Also, the decision reversed the Court's past ruling in "Stanford v. Kentucky", , which had said that executions of children ages 1618 were sometimes legal. 
The first known "juvenile" (child under the age of 18) to be executed in America was Thomas Granger. In 1642, he was executed at age 16 or 17 for sodomy. Between 1642 and 2016, 364 juveniles have been executed in the United States. 
Until 1988, the Supreme Court had put no limits on how old a person had to be in order to be executed. This meant each state could set their own rules. In some states, the minimum age for execution was as low as 14. For example, in 1944, South Carolina executed a 14-year-old boy named George Stinney in the electric chair. Stinney was the youngest person in the United States to be convicted and executed during the 20th century.
Juvenile executions were much more common earlier on. However, between 1976 and 2005, twenty-two juveniles were executed.
The Supreme Court started to set some limits on juvenile executions in the late 1980s. In 1988, the Supreme Court ruled in "Thompson v. Oklahoma" that children under the age of sixteen could not be executed. However, the next year, in "Stanford v. Kentucky", the Court ruled that juveniles ages 16 and 17 could be given the death penalty.
The "Simmons" case started in Missouri in 1993. Christopher Simmons, who was 17, made a plan to murder a woman named Shirley Crook. He brought two younger friends, Charles Benjamin and John Tessmer, into the plan. They planned to break into Crook's house, steal things, tie Crook up, and throw her off a bridge. Tessmer dropped out of the plan at the last minute. However, Simmons and Benjamin broke into Crook's home, drove her to a state park, and threw her off a bridge.
Simmons and Benjamin were caught and put on trial. There was a lot of evidence of what they had done. Simmons had admitted to the murder. Tessmer testifid against Simmons and said Simmons had planned the crime ahead of time. (In American law, thinking about killing someone ahead of time makes the killing first degree murder.) The jury found Simmons guilty, and recommended a death sentence. The judge agreed.
Simmons appealed his conviction. Each appeals court which heard his case agreed with the original jury's death sentence. Then the United States Supreme Court decided in "Atkins v. Virginia" 536 U.S. 304 (2002) that executing people with intellectual disabilities was unconstitutional. Encouraged, Simmons filed a new petition to the Supreme Court of Missouri. That court decided that "a national consensus has developed against the execution of juvenile offenders," meaning that across the country, most Americans disagreed with executing juveniles. The court ruled that executing juveniles is cruel and unusual punishment, which violates the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. They changed Simmons' sentence from death to life in prison.
The State of Missouri appealed the decision to the United States Supreme Court. The Court agreed to hear the case.
This case divided the Supreme Court. In a vote of 5-4, they ruled that it is cruel and unusual punishment to execute people who were juveniles when they committed their crimes. This means that executing these people is against the Eighth Amendment, and is unconstitutional. This decision made it illegal for any state in the country to execute someone who was under the age of 18 when they committed their crime.
The Court had a few reasons for making this decision. First, they argued that juveniles are not as mature as adults. They wrote that there is a lot of research showing that:
The Court pointed out that most states realized these things, which is why they kept teenagers from voting, being on juries, or getting married without their parents' approval.
The Court also agreed with the Missouri Supreme Court that there was a "national consensus" against executing people who committed their crimes as juveniles.
Finally, the Court looked at what other countries in the world did. They wrote that:
When the Supreme Court decided "Roper", there were 72 other prisoners in the United States who were on death row because of crimes they committed as juveniles:
These people were not set free. However, their death sentences were automatically cancelled and they were sentenced to spend the rest of their lives in prison instead.

</doc>
<doc id="536703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536703" title="Peremptory challenge">
Peremptory challenge

A peremptory challenge is a right during voir dire (the process of selecting a jury) to reject a certain number of potential jurors without having to give a reason. The word "peremptory" means without a reason given; allowing no contradiction or refusal. Peremptory challenges may be made by either party to the proceedings. This kind of challenge has been more difficult to use because the Supreme Court of the United States has prohibited peremptory challenges (also called peremptory strikes) based on gender or race. Different jurisdictions allow different numbers of peremptory challenges to each side. Some jurisdictions allow additional peremptory challenges. In United States federal courts each side is allowed three peremptory challenges. Also, if there are more than two parties involved in the proceeding the court may allow additional challenges or restrict the number for all parties.
To insure an impartial jury, during voir dire, prospective jurors are questioned by the lawyers and the court. Either lawyer may challenge a juror for cause. Reasons may include the prospective juror's opinions on issues, personal knowledge of the case, their occupation or any reason to believe the juror may not be able to be fair. Unlike peremptory challenges, challenges for cause may not be limited to a certain number in most jurisdictions. The reason for either type of challenge is that each lawyer is trying to find jurors who are sympathetic to their case.
The peremptory challenge has its roots in Roman law. Both parties would propose up to 100 prospective jurors, then each could strike 50. This left a total of 100 jurors on the jury. In English common law, a prosecutor had an unlimited number of peremptory challenges while the defendant has 35. In 1305, the Parliament of England eliminated all peremptory challenges for the prosecution. In 1988, Parliament eliminated all peremptory challenges for the defense. Peremptory challenges came to the United States with the colonists and Common Law. Peremptory challenges remained much the same until the late 20th century.
The following observation is attributed to Mark Twain:
While the right to use peremptory challenges is not guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, The Supreme Court has held peremptory challenges are "to assure the parties that the jurors before whom they try the case will decide on the basis of the evidence placed before them, and not otherwise."
Three Supreme Court decisions have shaped the modern peremptory challenge:

</doc>
<doc id="536705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536705" title="Batson v. Kentucky">
Batson v. Kentucky

Batson v. Kentucky, , was a landmark decision in which the United States Supreme Court ruled that a prosecutor's use of peremptory challenges in a criminal case may not be used to exclude jurors based solely on their race. The Court ruled that this practice violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The case gave rise to the term "Batson challenge", an objection to a peremptory challenge. This is based on the standard established by the Supreme Court's decision in this case. Later decisions have resulted in the extension of "Batson" to civil cases. For example, in "Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Company", the Court allowed private litigants to use this challenge. The Supreme Court also allowed it in cases are excluded on the basis of gender as in "J.E.B. v. Alabama ex rel. T.B.".
The principle had been established previously by several state courts, including the California Supreme Court in 1978, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in 1979 and the Florida Supreme Court in 1984.
James Kirkland Batson was an African American man convicted of burglary and receipt of stolen goods in a Louisville, Kentucky circuit court by a jury composed entirely of white jurors. The key part of his appeal was based on the "voir dire" (jury selection) phase of the trial. During this phase potential jurors are examined by the Court, the prosecution, and the defense, to determine their competence, willingness, and suitability to hear, deliberate and decide a case put to them in order to render a verdict. During "voir dire" the judge can dismiss jurors and both the prosecution and the defense have a limited number of peremptory challenges which they use to excuse any juror for any reason. Each side does this to help their case. Each side also may dismiss jurors for cause (for example, bias).
In "Batson", the judge dismissed several potential jurors for various causes. The defense peremptorily challenged nine potential jurors and the prosecution peremptorily challenged six, including all four black persons. As a result, only white persons were selected. The defense counsel moved to discharge the whole jury on the ground that the prosecutor's removal of the black jurors violated petitioner's rights under the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments to a jury drawn from a cross section of the community, and under the Fourteenth Amendment to equal protection of the laws. Without expressly ruling on petitioner's request for a Hearing, the trial judge denied the motion, and the jury ultimately convicted the defendant.
The defendant appealed his conviction to the Kentucky Supreme Court, which upheld the conviction. That court cited "Swain v. Alabama", and held that a defendant claiming lack of a fair cross section must demonstrate systematic exclusion of a group of jurors from the panel of prospective jurors. That is, the defendant had to show that not just in his case, but as a process, juries in his community did not represent a cross section of that community. Batson continued his appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, which granted "certiorari" to decide whether petitioner was tried "in violation of constitutional provisions guaranteeing the defendant an impartial jury and a jury composed of persons representing a fair cross section of the community."
In a 7–2 decision authored by Justice Lewis Powell, the Supreme Court ruled in Batson's favor. The court overruled "Swain v. Alabama" by lowering the burden of proof that a defendant must meet to make a "prima facie" case of purposeful discrimination. In "Swain", the Court had recognized that a "State's purposeful or deliberate denial to Negroes on account of race of participation as jurors in the administration of justice violates the Equal Protection Clause", but that the defendant had the burden of proving a systematic striking of black jurors throughout the county, that is, that the peremptory challenge system as a whole was being perverted. In "Batson" the court ruled that the defendant could make a "prima facie" case for purposeful racial discrimination in jury selection by relying on the record only in his own case. The Court explained: 
The Court also held that:
Justice Marshall, concurring with the majority, called the decision "historic" but added: "The decision today will not end the racial discrimination that peremptories inject into the jury-selection process. That goal can be accomplished only by eliminating peremptory challenges entirely."
In his dissenting opinion, Chief Justice Warren Burger argued that the court's decision in "Batson" "sets aside the peremptory challenge, a procedure which has been part of the common law for many centuries and part of our jury system for nearly 200 years". He believed the majority was replacing peremptory challenges with something very similar to challenge for cause, but was unclear in explaining the standard to be applied. "I am at a loss to discern the governing principles here," he wrote. "I join my colleagues in wishing the nation's judges well as they struggle to grasp how to implement today's holding."
Justice Rehnquist wrote that the majority misapplied equal protection doctrine: "In my view, there is simply nothing 'unequal' about the state using its peremptory challenges to strike blacks from the jury in cases involving black defendants, so long as such challenges are also used to exclude whites in cases involving white defendants, Hispanics in cases involving Hispanic defendants, Asians in cases involving Asian defendants, and so on."
Whether the principles of "Batson" applied retroactively to anyone convicted previously by juries whose racial composition was influenced by peremptory challenges not consistent with this opinion was for a time uncertain. In "Allen v. Hardy" (1986), the Court held that it did not apply retroactively to collateral review of final convictions. In "Griffith v. Kentucky" (1987), it decided it would apply it in cases on direct review.
The term "Batson challenge" describes an objection to opposing counsel's use of a peremptory challenge to exclude a juror from the jury pool based on criteria the courts have found disqualifying, as race was the sole rationale for exclusion in "Batson".
In some cases, parties have appealed a verdict or judgment and asked it be made invalid because one or more peremptory challenges excluded a recognizable group from the jury. Though the "Batson" decision addressed jury selection in criminal trials, in 1991 the Supreme Court later extended the same rule to civil trials in "Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Company". In 1994, in "J.E.B. v. Alabama ex rel. T.B."., the Court held that peremptory challenges based on sex alone violated the standard established in "Batson" as well.

</doc>
<doc id="536706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536706" title="Micro-second">
Micro-second

One microsecond is one millionth (0.000001 or 10 or /) of a second.

</doc>
<doc id="536707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536707" title="Polearm">
Polearm

Polearms were long sticks that had a blade on the side. They were similar to an axe, but much longer. They were also used by women in ancient Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="536708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536708" title="Citizenship in the United States">
Citizenship in the United States

Citizenship in the United States means being a citizen of the United States. A person who has citizenship is called a citizen.
Citizenship does not just mean that a person lives in the United States. United States citizenship gives people many rights, many protections, and also some duties. 
Once a person is a United States citizen, their citizenship cannot be taken away unless they ask for it to be taken away.
There are two ways that people can become citizens of the United States.
The first is called "birthright citizenship." Anybody who is born in the United States automatically becomes a United States citizen.
The second is called "naturalization." This is for people who were born outside the United States. A person becomes a "naturalized citizen" if they apply for citizenship and are approved.
Once a person is a naturalized citizen, they have all of the same rights, protections, and duties as a person who was born in the United States.
Being a United States citizen gives a person many rights. Here is a list of some of these rights.
Citizenship also comes with duties. Here are some of those duties.

</doc>
<doc id="536728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536728" title="Category:Capital punishment in the United States">
Category:Capital punishment in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="536729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536729" title="Category:Disasters in the Soviet Union">
Category:Disasters in the Soviet Union


</doc>
<doc id="536731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536731" title="Category:Erotic movies">
Category:Erotic movies


</doc>
<doc id="536732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536732" title="Gates v. Collier">
Gates v. Collier

Gates v. Collier, 501 F.2d 1291 (5th Cir. 1974), was a landmark case decided by a United States federal court called the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. The case had to do with the rights of prisoners at Mississippi State Penitentiary (usually called "Parchman").
"Gates v. Collier" is a very important case for prisoners' rights. It was the first case to rule that many types of physical punishment against prisoners are cruel and unusual punishment, and are against the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. It was also the first time that the Supreme Court started supervising how the country's prisons were being run.
The Eighth Amendment to the Constitution says that the state cannot give cruel and unusual punishments to anyone.
Parchman opened in 1903. At the prison, there was a program called the "trusty system." This was a system where some prisoners had more rights and freedoms than others. They also had power over the other inmates.
The Governor of Mississippi, James K. Vardaman, said the prison was run “like an efficient slave plantation.” Trusties had guns and were allowed to shoot at prisoners who stepped out of line. Other punishments were painful and severe. The prison also segregated (separated) black and white prisoners. 
For years, there were protests over civil rights abuses at Parchman. Eventually, civil rights lawyer Roy Haber began to collect evidence of the abuse. With Haber as their lawyer, four prisoners filed a lawsuit in federal court, saying that conditions at the prison were cruel and unusual. They said that prison trusties and guards punished and tortured prisoners in ways that were painful and humiliating on purpose.
The prisoners' lawsuit, "Gates v. Collier", 349 F. Supp. 881 (1972), went first to a federal court called the United States District Court N.D. Mississippi, Greenville Division. This court ruled strongly in favor of the prisoners. The court found that Parchman's trusties and guards gave many cruel and unusual punishments, including:
The court ruled that the prison had violated the prisoner's rights under the First, Sixth, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution. The court ordered the prison to make many different changes to fix these abuses. It also ordered the prison to end the trusty system.
The state of Mississippi appealed this decision to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. However, the Fifth Circuit also agreed with the lower court's earlier decision. Federal Judge William C. Keady wrote that Parchman Farm had violated "modern standards of decency. He ordered an immediate end to all unconstitutional conditions and practices.
The Fifth Circuit Court ruled that Parchman was using cruel and unusual punishments on its prisoners. It was violating their rights to be protected by the laws which apply to prisoners, too. 
After the court decision, Parchman had to end its trusty system. It also stopped segregating its prisoners.
After the court decision, other states that used the trusty system had to stop using it too. These states included Arkansas, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas.
This decision also set some important precedents. One is that even prisoners have the right to be protected from cruel and unusual punishment. Americans' constitutional rights do not all stop when a person goes to prison. It also limited the type of punishments that prisons can use.

</doc>
<doc id="536735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536735" title="Sher e Bangla Medical College">
Sher e Bangla Medical College

Sher-e-Bangla Medical College (SBMC), is a government medical school in Bangladesh, established in 1968. It is located in Barisal.
Construction began on the college on 6 November 1964, at that time it was known as Barisal Medical College.
There are three hostels for male students and two for the female students. Both male and female intern doctors have each one hostel for them.

</doc>
<doc id="536736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536736" title="Category:Education in Bangladesh">
Category:Education in Bangladesh


</doc>
<doc id="536753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536753" title="Category:Female buddy movies">
Category:Female buddy movies


</doc>
<doc id="536754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536754" title="Category:LGBT comedy-drama movies">
Category:LGBT comedy-drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="536755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536755" title="Category:LGBT drama movies">
Category:LGBT drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="536756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536756" title="Category:LGBT thriller movies">
Category:LGBT thriller movies


</doc>
<doc id="536757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536757" title="Category:LGBT comedy movies">
Category:LGBT comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="536774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536774" title="Cricket World Cup 2023">
Cricket World Cup 2023

The 2023 ICC Cricket World Cup is scheduled to be hosted by India. India was selected as the host at an International Cricket Council (ICC) meeting in London in June 2013. This will be the 13th Cricket World Cup competition. It will be the fourth time that India will be the host. This will be the first time that India has hosted the tournament on its own. India hosted previous World Cup tournaments in 1987 (with Pakistan), 1996 (with Pakistan and Sri Lanka) and 2011 (with Sri Lanka and Bangladesh).

</doc>
<doc id="536782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536782" title="Diaeresis">
Diaeresis

The diaeresis (plural: diaereses) is also spelled diæresis or dieresis. It is a diacritical mark: two dots ( ¨ ) put over a letter, usually a vowel.
It is a cousin of the umlaut, in this way:

</doc>
<doc id="536785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536785" title="2015–16 La Liga - Results of first round">
2015–16 La Liga - Results of first round

This is the Results of the first round of 2015–16 La Liga.

</doc>
<doc id="536787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536787" title="Château de Saint Cloud">
Château de Saint Cloud

The Château de Saint Cloud was a château in Paris, France. It was sometimes called the Palace of Saint Cloud. It was burned down during the Franco-Prussian War in 1870. It was once a private property of Queen Marie Antoinette. Since December 2006, there has been a movement to rebuild the Château de Saint-Cloud.
The building was originally called the "he Hôtel d'Aulnay". In the 16h century, it was expanded into a château by the Gondi banking family. The estate was in the hands of the Gondi family till 1658. At that time it was bought by Philippe of France, Duke of Orléans, the only brother of Louis XIV of France. The estate remained the personal property of the descendants of Philippe of France. It was a country residence, as opposed to the Palais Royal in the center of Paris.
After negotiating for a long time, the Château de Saint-Cloud was bought in 1785 by Louis XVI. He bought it for Marie Antoinette. She thought that the air of Saint-Cloud would be good for her children. Louis Philippe, Duke of Orléans, who had not visited the château since his morganatic marriage to his mistress Madame de Montesson, sold it for 6,000,000 livres. Marie Antoinette started changing Saint-Cloud in 1787-1788. She used her preferred architect Richard Mique. He had also decorated parts of the Palace of Versailles for the queen. 
During the Second Empire, Emperor Napoléon III and Empress Eugénie held their imperial court at Saint-Cloud during the spring and the autumn. There was also a reception for Queen Victoria in honour of her 1855 visit to France. In 1859, a model railway was built in the private park. It was built for Napoléon, Prince Imperial, the 3-year-old son of emperor Napoléon III. 

</doc>
<doc id="536798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536798" title="Essential oils">
Essential oils

An essential oil is a liquid from a plant. Essential oils contain chemical compounds that are useful for their scent. They are used in aromatherapy. Perfumes are made with essential oils.
Around the world, essential oils are being studied in modern clinical trials to test ancient claims of healing. They are being studied for their effectiveness as antibacterial agents, fungicides, insecticides, pain relief, stress reduction, and skin problems.
The name "essential oil" comes from theories in the Middle Ages of a fifth element. People than believed that there were four basic elements that everything was made of: fire, water, air and earth. The elusive "soul" of things was called the quintessential element or the fifth element. Over time, "quintessential" was shortened to "essential". Alchemists said that this element could change iron to gold. Some believed it held the planets in their orbits.
Most essential oils today are steam distilled. This process separates out the aromatic essential oils from the solid plant matter. With steam distillation, it can take thousands of pounds of plant matter to create just one liter of essential oil.
Other methods include expelling and solvent extraction. Expelling is using pressure to squeeze the essential oil out of the plant. This method is generally used for citrus oils. Solvent extraction uses substances such as carbon dioxide to extract the essential oil. This method is used for delicate plants such as rose and jasmine, which can be too fragile to go through the distillation process.

</doc>
<doc id="536799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536799" title="Birch">
Birch

A birch tree is a thinleaved deciduous hardwood tree of the genus Betula. They are in the family Betulaceae, which also includes alders, hazels, and hornbeams.
"Betula" contains 30 to 60 species of which 11 are on the IUCN 2011 Green List of Threatened Species. They are usually rather short-lived pioneer species widespread in the Northern Hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="536800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536800" title="Brown v. Board of Education II">
Brown v. Board of Education II

Brown v. Board of Education II (often called Brown II) was a Supreme Court case decided in 1955. The year before, the Supreme Court had decided "Brown v. Board of Education", which made racial segregation in schools illegal. However, many all-white schools in the United States had not followed this ruling and still had not integrated (allowed black children into) their schools. In "Brown II", the Court ordered them to integrate their schools "with all deliberate speed." 
In "Brown II", the Supreme Court also set out rules about what schools needed to do to de-segregate. Finally, it explained how the United States government would make sure the schools did de-segregate.
After the Supreme Court decided the original "Brown" case, it planned to hear arguments during its next court session about just how school de-segregation was going to happen. Segregation in United States schools had existed for centuries. The Court understood that it would not be easy to get the states to follow its ruling and de-segregate their schools. 
Also, in its ruling in "Brown", the Court had not given the states any instructions for "how" to end school segregation. The Court had also not given the states a deadline for "when" they needed to de-segregate their schools. These were all details that the Supreme Court needed to decide in "Brown II".
When it decided the original "Brown" case in 1954, the Supreme Court had combined "Brown" with four other cases. The Court decided all five cases together as one, which it called "Brown v. Board of Education". This meant that in "Brown II", the Court was again deciding about five different cases. These were:
There were a few legal issue that the Supreme Court had to decide in "Brown II". For example:
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), whose lawyers had won "Brown", argued that school de-segregation should begin right away. The states argued back that this would be too difficult and too expensive, and that they needed more time to de-segregate.
In a 9-0 decision, the Supreme Court ordered the states to start trying to obey the "Brown" decision and de-segregate their schools. It ordered the states to start making plans about how they were going to integrate their schools.
However, the Court refused to order the schools to integrate right away, like the NAACP had wanted. It also did not set any clear deadline for when schools needed to be de-segregated. In the Court's majority opinion, Chief Justice Earl Warren wrote that the states should integrate "with all deliberate speed." 
To many people, it was not clear exactly what this meant. It also meant that the Court was denying relief to the black students in the "Brown" lawsuits. As constitutional law scholar Steven Emanuel explains:
Instead of ordering the states to de-segregate right away, the Court created a slower plan. It gave federal district courts the power to look after whether schools were de-segregating. Justice Warren wrote: "[These] courts will [make sure] that the defendants make a prompt and reasonable start" toward obeying "Brown."
"Brown II" did make it clear that schools in the United States would have to de-segregate. It also set out a process for making sure schools integrated, by giving federal district courts the power to supervise the schools, control how long they could have to de-segregate, and punish them if they refused to integrate.
However, many states, especially in the South, were able to avoid integrating their schools for years because "Brown II" did not set a specific deadline for integration. Justice Warren's ruling that schools needed to de-segregate "with all deliberate speed" was vague and could have many different meanings. States and schools that did not want to integrate chose meanings that gave them excuses not to let black students into their schools.
For example, based on the "Brown II" ruling, a federal district court ruled that Prince Edward County, Virginia, did not have to de-segregate its schools right away. Several years later, in 1959, a federal court of appeals ordered the county to start de-segregating its schools. Prince Edward County responded by refusing to fund (give any money to) the county's schools. With no money, the schools had to close. They stayed closed for five years, from 1959 to 1964.
Prince Edward County helped white students go to white-only private schools. Black students could not go to school at all, unless they moved to a different county. 
Finally, in 1964, the United States Supreme Court ruled that what Prince Edward County was doing was unconstitutional, and ordered the schools to re-open without segregation.

</doc>
<doc id="536810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536810" title="Joseph Weizenbaum">
Joseph Weizenbaum

Joseph Weizenbaum (8 January 1923 - 5 March 2008) was a German-American mathematician and computer scientist. He was born in Berlin. He became famous for writing the program ELIZA, which simulated a doctor, in the 1960s. He also became well-known for having a critical attitude to what computers can and should do. Weizenbaum died of a stroke at age 85, in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="536811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536811" title="Benjamin Franklin Tilley">
Benjamin Franklin Tilley

Benjamin Franklin Tilley was an officer in the US Navy who served in the American Civil War and the Spanish-American War.

</doc>
<doc id="536812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536812" title="Black Hills">
Black Hills

The Black Hills are a small mountain range from the Great Plains of North America in South Dakota.
Native Americans have a long history in the Black Hills. After conquering the Cheyenne in 1776, the Lakota took over the territory of the Black Hills. 
In 1868, the U.S. government signed the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868. This exempted the Black Hills from all white settlement forever. 
But, when European Americans discovered gold there in 1874, miners swept into the area in a gold rush. The US government reassigned the Lakota, against their wishes, to other reservations in western South Dakota. Unlike most of South Dakota, the Black Hills were settled by European Americans from population centers to the west and south. Miners flocked there from earlier gold boom places in Colorado and Montana.
As the economy shifted from mining and logging, the tourism industry has grown. The Black Hills have two areas: "The Southern Hills" and "The Northern Hills". The Southern Hills is home to Mount Rushmore National Memorial, Wind Cave National Park, Jewel Cave National Monument, Harney Peak (the highest point in the United States east of the Rockies), Custer State Park (the largest state park in South Dakota, and one of the largest in the US), the Crazy Horse Memorial (the largest sculpture in the world), and the Mammoth Site in Hot Springs, the world’s largest mammoth research facility.

</doc>
<doc id="536813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536813" title="Corn Palace">
Corn Palace

The Corn Palace is an arena in Mitchell, South Dakota. The designs on the buildings are covered in corn and other grains.
The Corn Palace has concerts, sports events, exhibits and other community events. Each year, the Corn Palace is celebrated with a citywide festival, the Corn Palace Festival. Historically it was held at harvest time in September, but now it happens in August. Other popular annual events include the Corn Palace Stampede Rodeo in July and the Corn Palace Polka Festival in September. It is also where the Dakota Wesleyan University Tigers and the Mitchell High School Kernels basketball teams play their games.

</doc>
<doc id="536815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536815" title="Chaplain–Medic massacre">
Chaplain–Medic massacre

The Chaplain-Medic massacre was a crime in the Korean War. It happened on a mountain in South Korea. Thirty unarmed, and critically wounded United States Army soldiers and an unarmed chaplain were killed by people of the North Korean army during the Battle of Taejon.

</doc>
<doc id="536816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536816" title="Knossos">
Knossos

Knossos is a Bronze Age archaeological site on the island of Crete. It is at modern Heraklion. It may be Europe's oldest city.
Many Roman coins found on the site had 'Knosion' or 'Knos' on one side, and an image of a Minotaur or Labyrinth on the reverse. These are symbols from the myth of King Minos, supposed to have reigned at Knossos.
The excavations at Knossos began in 1900 by the English archaeologist Sir Arthur Evans (1851–1941) and his team. They worked there for 35 years. The palace was excavated and partly restored. It was large. The team discovered two ancient scripts, called Linear A and Linear B. From the layering of the palace, Evans developed an idea of the civilization that used it, which he called Minoan. The palace was built over a previous Neolithic town. During the Bronze Age, the town surrounded the hill on which the palace was built.
The palace was abandoned at some unknown time at the end of the late Bronze Age, c. 1380–1100 BC, for reasons which are not known.

</doc>
<doc id="536824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536824" title="Imre Nagy">
Imre Nagy

Imre Nagy (7 June 1896 - 16 June 1958) was a Hungarian communist politician. He was born in Kaposvár. He was chairman on two occasions. He was executed by hanging in Budapest.

</doc>
<doc id="536825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536825" title="Lee Trevino">
Lee Trevino

Lee Trevino is a retired American professional golfer who was born in Dallas, Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="536832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536832" title="China National Space Administration">
China National Space Administration

The China National Space Administration (CNSA) is the national space agency of China, and is based in the Haidian District. It is in charge of the national space program and of managing different space-related activities.

</doc>
<doc id="536835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536835" title="Betts v. Brady">
Betts v. Brady

Betts v. Brady, , was a landmark case decided by the United States Supreme Court in 1942. The case had to do with "indigent" (poor) people who were on trial for crimes, but could not afford to pay for a lawyer. The Court ruled that a person did not need a lawyer to get a fair trial. They also ruled that the states did not have to pay for free lawyers for poor defendants.
In 1963, the Court reversed its decision in "Betts" when it decided "Gideon v. Wainwright", .
The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution says that "In all criminal [trials], the accused shall ... have the assistance of counsel for his defence." ("Counsel" is another word for "lawyer.")
However, in the 1930s, the Supreme Court made a few decisions that decreased the number of United States citizens who had the right to a lawyer.
In 1932, the Court decided a case called "Powell v. Alabama", . They ruled that the states had to assign free lawyers to poor defendants, but "only" if they were being tried for capital crimes. (Capital crimes are crimes that can be punished with the death penalty.)
Then, in 1938, the Supreme Court ruled in "Johnson v. Herbst" that in "federal" courts, any person who was charged with a crime and could not pay for a lawyer had to be assigned a lawyer for free. However, the Court also ruled that the Sixth Amendment applied "only" to federal courts not to state courts.
This meant that if a person was charged with a crime in a "state" court, and he could not afford a lawyer, he would have to defend himself in court.
In 1941, Betts was indicted (formally charged) with robbery by a court in Maryland. Betts could not pay for a lawyer. He asked the court to assign him a free lawyer. The judge refused. He said the court only appointed free lawyers to people charged with rape or murder.
Betts had to defend himself, without the help of a lawyer. He argued that he had been in a different place at the time of the robbery. He called witnesses who said this was true. However, the judge did not believe Betts. He sentenced Betts to eight years in prison.
Betts filed a writ of habeas corpus with a Maryland appeals court. A writ of habeas corpus asks to be set free from unfair imprisonment. Betts argued that his imprisonment was unfair because he had not been given a lawyer. His petition was denied.
Next Betts filed a writ of habeas corpus to the Court of Appeals of Maryland, the most powerful court in Maryland. It also denied his petition.
Finally, Betts filed a request with the Supreme Court of the United States, asking them to hear his case. The Court agreed.
The "Betts" case brought up some important legal issues for the Court to decide. 
The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution says that "In all criminal [trials], the accused shall ... have the assistance of counsel for his defence." 
Also, the Fourteenth Amendment says that no state can take away any person's "life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person ... the equal protection of the laws."
The Court had already decided that the right to have a lawyer applied to all people in federal criminal trials; people being tried by the states for rape or murder; and anyone who could pay for a lawyer. Now they needed to decide whether poor people had the right to have lawyers too, even if they could not pay for them. 
They also needed to decide these questions:
On June 1, 1942, the Supreme Court voted 63 against Betts. They ruled that his conviction was fair.
The Court ruled that having a lawyer was not a basic right. Usually, a defendant did not need a lawyer to get a fair trial, the Court said.
In their decision, the Court did rule that there were special cases where a court should assign a lawyer. In these special cases, not having a lawyer would make it difficult for a defendant to get a fair trial. In each case, the judge was supposed to talk to the defendant to figure out whether any of these "special circumstances" existed. For example, was the defendant mentally able to defend himself? Did he have enough education? Did he understand what happens during a trial?
For 21 years, "Betts" set a precedent that allowed individual courts and judges to decide whether poor people would be given lawyers or not.
Finally, in 1963, the Supreme Court decided a case called "Gideon v. Wainwright", . In the "Gideon" decision, the Court admitted that it made the wrong decision in "Betts". A lawyer "is" needed for a fair trial.

</doc>
<doc id="536837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536837" title="Magasa, Crete">
Magasa, Crete

Magasa, Crete is a settlement on Crete.

</doc>
<doc id="536841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536841" title="Mamba">
Mamba

Mambas are fast-moving venomous snake of the genus "Dendroaspis" (means "tree asp").
They are native to Africa. The black mamba is one of the well-known species and is also the most feared. Most members of these snakes climb or live up trees and are active during the day. They generally avoid contact with humans.

</doc>
<doc id="536842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536842" title="Chanel">
Chanel

Chanel is a French fashion company created by Coco Chanel (19 August 1883 – 10 January 1971).
It designs clothing, perfumes, luxury goods and jewellery, usually of simple design. It is widely known for the "little black dress" and Chanel No. 5 perfume.

</doc>
<doc id="536844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536844" title="Sea Shepherd Conservation Society">
Sea Shepherd Conservation Society

The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society (SSCS) is an American organization that aims to protect marine life, and was founded in 1977 by activist Paul Watson, a former member of Greenpeace. One of the things they heavily campaign against is whaling.

</doc>
<doc id="536845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536845" title="LGBT rights in Canada">
LGBT rights in Canada

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights in Canada are some of the most advanced in the world. During the British North America era, same-sex relationships were illegal. They were punishable with capital punishment. Homosexual activity became legal in 1969. Same-sex marriage became legal in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="536851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536851" title="Category:Comedy-drama">
Category:Comedy-drama


</doc>
<doc id="536853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536853" title="Category:2010s in India">
Category:2010s in India


</doc>
<doc id="536854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536854" title="Category:2010s in Asia">
Category:2010s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536856" title="Category:2016 in Asia">
Category:2016 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536857" title="Category:2015 in Asia">
Category:2015 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536865" title="Swinging (sexual practice)">
Swinging (sexual practice)

Swinging is a human sexuality based on multi-partner relations. In contrast with an affair, both partners are consenting to sexual exchange of one and the other. It was this exchange that creates a certain eroticism and even sexual arousal.

</doc>
<doc id="536869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536869" title="Neufchâtel-en-Bray">
Neufchâtel-en-Bray

Neufchâtel-en-Bray is a commune of Seine-Maritime. It's famous as cheese production : the Neufchâtel.

</doc>
<doc id="536870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536870" title="Iris nebula">
Iris nebula

The Iris nebula is a reflection nebula in the constellation of Cepheus. It is about 1,300 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="536871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536871" title="Escobedo v. Illinois">
Escobedo v. Illinois

Escobedo v. Illinois, , was a landmark United States Supreme Court case decided in 1964. The Court ruled that suspects in crimes have the right to have a lawyer with them while they are being questioned by the police. This case was decided just a year after the Court ruled in "Gideon v. Wainwright", , that indigent (poor) criminal defendants had a right to be assigned free lawyers at trial.
Danny Escobedo's brother-in-law, Manuel Valtierra, was shot and killed on the night of January 19, 1960. Escobedo was arrested without a warrant early the next morning and interrogated. However, Escobedo did not admit anything to the police, and was let go that afternoon. 
Another man named Benedict DiGerlando had also arrested, and the police thought he was another suspect. DiGerlando told the police that Escobedo's brother-in-law, Valtierra, treated Escobedo's sister badly. Because of this, Escobedo had shot and killed Valtierra, said DiGerlando.
On January 30, 1960, the police again arrested Escobedo, as well as his sister, Grace. While driving them to the police station, the police explained that DiGerlando had told them Escobedo was guilty. The police urged him and Grace to confess. Escobedo again refused.
Escobedo asked to speak to his lawyer, but the police refused. They said that although he was not formally charged with a crime yet, he was in police custody and could not leave. Escobedo's lawyer went to the police station and asked many times to see Escobedo, but was not allowed to.
Police and prosecutors interrogated Escobedo for fifteen hours. They made Escobedo stand, handcuffed, for the entire time. Escobedo continued to ask to speak with his lawyer, and they continued to refuse. Escobedo later said that the police promised him he could go free, and would not be charged with murder, if he just confessed to the crime. Finally, after "becoming more emotional," Escobedo said something about being connected with the crime. The police took this as an indirect confession.
At his murder trial, the prosecution used Escobedo's 'confession' as its most important evidence against him. A jury convicted Escobedo of murder and sentenced him to 20 years in prison.
Escobedo appealed his conviction to the Illinois Supreme Court. His trial lawyer refused to help him, so Escobedo wrote the appeal himself. However, after the Supreme Court got his appeal, he did receive a volunteer lawyer named Barry Kroll. Together, they argued that Escobedo's right to a lawyer had been violated and that his confession had been coerced (made because of pressure, lies, and threats).
At first, the Illinois Supreme Court agreed, and decided to give Escobedo a whole new trial. But later, it reversed its decision. The members of the court had changed their minds and decided Escobedo was guilty after all. They refused to reverse or change the original trial court's sentence.
Finally, Kroll and Escobedo appealed to the United States Supreme Court. The Court agreed to hear the case. 
The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution says that "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to ... the Assistance of Counsel for his defence."
The Court had already decided that people had the right to a lawyer during "trials". However, the Court had always thought that the Sixth Amendment's right to a lawyer applied to people only "after" they were "accused," once they were already "in... criminal prosecutions," as the Amendment itself says.
Now the Court had to decide:
The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) helped Kroll argue before the Court. They argued that the police violated not only Escobedo's Sixth Amendment rights, but also his Fourteenth Amendment rights.
The Fourteenth Amendment says that no state can take away any person's "life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person ... the equal protection of the laws." Escobedo's team argued that the police took away his freedom without due process or equal protection of the laws by:
Lawyers for Illinois argued that the police officers did the right thing when they refused to let Escobedo have a lawyer. According to the law and past Supreme Court cases, the right to a lawyer was not guaranteed until a person had actually been charged with a crime.
Illinois also argued that if the Court ruled in favor of Escobedo, the results for law enforcement could be terrible. If lawyers had to be at every interrogation, it would be almost impossible to get confessions.
The "Escobedo" case divided the Supreme Court. By a vote of 5-4, the Court ruled in favor of Escobedo. They threw out his conviction, and he went free.
The Court ruled that the Sixth Amendment does apply to police interrogations. In other words, people have the right to a lawyer when they are being questioned by the police.
Specifically, the Court ruled that the right to a lawyer begins before a person is charged with a crime. It begins when the police start treating a person like a suspect.
Justice Arthur J. Goldberg wrote the Court's majority opinion. He rejected the state of Illinois' argument that having lawyers around would be terrible for law enforcement. He wrote:
The "Escobedo" decision affected every police department, prosecutor, and court in the country:
"Escobedo" also added extra protections for suspects. It allows them to use their Sixth Amendment right to a lawyer as soon as they become a suspect, not just after they are charged with a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="536875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536875" title="Caldwell catalogue">
Caldwell catalogue

The Caldwell catalogue is an astronomical catalogue of 109 objects. It includes star clusters, nebulae, and galaxies for observation by amateur astronomers. The list was compiled by Patrick Moore as a complement to the Messier catalogue.
The Messier catalogue is used by amateur astronomers as a list of deep-sky objects for observation. However, it was not compiled for that purpose. It does not include many of the sky's brightest deep-sky objects, such as the Hyades, the Double Cluster (NGC 869 and NGC 884), and the Sculptor Galaxy (NGC 253). The Messier catalogue was compiled as a list of known objects that might be confused with comets. As Messier got his list from observations in Paris, it did not include bright deep-sky objects visible in the Southern Hemisphere, such as Omega Centauri, Centaurus A, the Jewel Box, and 47 Tucanae. 
So Moore compiled a list of 109 objects – to match the accepted number of Messier objects. The list was published in "Sky & Telescope" in December 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="536876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536876" title="Category:Astronomical catalogues">
Category:Astronomical catalogues


</doc>
<doc id="536877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536877" title="Sunflower galaxy">
Sunflower galaxy

The Sunflower galaxy (Messier 63 or NGC 5055) is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Canes Venatici. It is about 37 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="536878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536878" title="NGC 6334">
NGC 6334

NGC 6334 is an emission nebula and star-forming region in the constellation of Scorpius. It is about 5,500 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="536880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536880" title="NGC 1291">
NGC 1291

NGC 1291 is a ring galaxy in the constellation of Eridanus. It is about 33 million light-years away.

</doc>
<doc id="536884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536884" title="Ring galaxy">
Ring galaxy

A ring galaxy is a kind of galaxy that has a ring shape. Hoag's Object and NGC 1291 are two examples. The ring is made up of many massive, young blue stars, which are extremely bright. The middle of the galaxy contains far less luminous matter. 
Some astronomers believe that ring galaxies are formed when a smaller galaxy passes through the center of a larger galaxy. Because galaxies are mostly made up of empty space, a collision rarely happens between stars. However, the gravitational disruptions could cause a wave of star formation to move through the larger galaxy. Other astronomers think that rings are formed around some galaxies when an accretion disc is formed. Star formation would then result from the shocks and compressions in the newly formed disc.

</doc>
<doc id="536893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536893" title="United States district court">
United States district court

The United States district courts are the trial courts of the federal court system. 
United States district courts hold trials, like state courts do. However, the Constitution only gives federal courts the power to hear certain kinds of cases. For example, federal courts can hear cases about:
Each trial is heard by a judge and decided by a jury. 
There are 94 U.S. district courts in the United States. Every district court also includes a bankruptcy court.
Each state (and Washington, D.C.) has at least one district court. So do four U.S. territories: Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
The next-most powerful federal courts are the United States Courts of Appeals. They are also called "appellate courts." There are 13 Courts of Appeals. The 94 district courts are organized into 12 larger areas, called "circuits." Each Court of Appeals deals with appeals filed in their circuit.
For example, the Districts of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode Island, and Puerto Rico are grouped together into the "First Circuit." If, for example, somebody wanted to appeal a decision made by the District Court of Massachusetts, they would write an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
The last choice for appealing a court decision is to file an appeal asking the United States Supreme Court to hear the case.
Here is a map that shows which circuit each United States District Court is in. States that are the same color are in the same circuit. Each circuit has a number on it for example, Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi are in the 5th Circuit.
The dotted lines on the map also show the areas which the District Courts cover. On the map, some states have no dotted lines in them. This means there is only one District Court in that state. For example, Alaska has only one District Court: the District Court of Alaska. This court covers the entire state of Alaska.
Other states are divided into more than one district. The dotted lines on the map show where one district ends and another begins. For example, on the map, Washington is divided down the middle by a dotted line. Washington has two District Courts: the District Court for the Western District of Washington, and the District Court for the Eastern District of Washington.
Here is a list of information about all of the United States District Courts. Just like with the map, districts that are in the same circuit are the same color. The colors are the same as the map (for example, districts in the 8th Circuit are orange on the map and on the list). To sort this table, click on the little triangle on the top row of the table, in the column you want to sort by.

</doc>
<doc id="536899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536899" title="Swati language">
Swati language

Swati (also known as Swazi) is part of the Nguni group of Bantu languages. It is spoken by about 1.5 million people in Swaziland and South Africa. It is one of the eleven official languages in South Africa. It is taught in the schools of Swaziland, and in some South African schools. Swati is closely related to Phuthi, a language spoken in Lesotho, and to Zulu, Ndebele and Xhosa.
Swati has four main varietes: Shiselweni, Hhohho, Manzini and Shiselweni. They correspond with the four administrative regions of Swaziland.

</doc>
<doc id="536901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536901" title="Trusty system (prison)">
Trusty system (prison)

The trusty system was a system that Mississippi State Penitentiary and other prisons used to control prisoners. In the trusty system, some prisoners were given more power than others. These trusties guarded the other prisoners.
The trusty system worked out well for prison officials because they did not have to pay civilian (non-prisoner) guards to control the prisoners. However, the trusties kept the other prisoners under control through physical abuse, torture, fear, and humiliation. Finally, in 1974, a federal court ruled that the trusty system, and the whole prison, were violating the United States Constitution by giving out cruel and unusual punishments. This ruling ordered the trusty system to be shut down.
Mississippi State Penitentiary was built in 1901. It was originally called Parchman Farm. Mississippi law said that the prison had to pay for itself "and" make a profit for the state. In other words, the prison had to pay for everything it needed itself, "and" make money for the state.
Basically, this meant Parchman was like a business for the state of Mississippi. It was like a business that used slave labor the state made money without having to pay for anything, including workers' salaries. In fact, one year, Parchman earned $180,000 for the state of Mississippi not including what it had to spend on itself. The Governor of Mississippi, James K. Vardaman, even said the prison was run “like an efficient slave plantation.” This hurt other local businesses, which did have to pay their workers and other costs. 
The prison warden controlled the prison completely. Nobody from outside of the prison ever came in to see what was going on. Because of this, nobody outside the prison knew what Parchman was really like. For example, in 1911, the "New York Times" wrote an article congratulating the Mississippi prison system for figuring out how to keep people in prison and make money at the same time. Also, because no outsiders ever came into Parchman, the conditions and abuse at the prison changed very little from the time it opened in 1903 until the "Gates v. Collier" case forced it to change. 
The prison had approximately of good farmland. Prisoners grew cash crops (crops which prison officials could sell to make money), like cotton. They also bred livestock.
As of 1973, there were about 1,900 inmates at Parchman. Two-thirds were black. Black and white inmates were kept apart. However, Mississippi law said that the prison could hire 150 staff members at most, so the prison would not cost too much. This meant there were about 13 inmates for every staff member. There just were not enough staff members to guard the prisoners, make the prison work every day, take care of the farm, and do everything else they needed to do.
With so few staff members, the inmates did all the farm work. Also, with so few guards, inmate trusties did most of the guardian and punishing other prisoners. Trusties also did most of the paperwork, office work, and cleaning. Basically, the trusties ran the prison system.
In the trusty system, some trusties had more power than others. The most powerful were the "trusty shooters." They were allowed to carry rifles and shoot at or around prisoners who made mistakes. Sometimes they hit them with their shots. They whipped prisoners who did not pick enough cotton in a day. They were in charge of the inmates' barracks, fields, and the farms. They could give punishment, and they could also suggest more punishment in the "special punishment area."
Very few people supervised what the trusty shooters did. For example, the farm's camps of black inmates were supervised by one white sergeant. Under him, black trusty shooters, who were serving sentences for murder, carried rifles and enforced discipline.
For years, there were protests over Parchman's abuse of prisoners' civil rights. Eventually, a civil rights lawyer named Roy Haber began to collect evidence of the abuse. With Haber as their lawyer, four prisoners filed a lawsuit in federal court, saying that conditions at the prison were cruel and unusual. They said that prison trusties punished and tortured prisoners in ways that were painful and humiliating on purpose.
A United States District Court, and then the more powerful Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, strongly agreed with the prisoners. Both courts ruled that Parchman was violating the prisoners' constitutional rights. Both courts found that trusties gave prisoners all kinds of cruel and unusual punishments, including:
The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ordered Parchman to end its trusty program; racial segregation at the prison; and all other cruel, unusual, and unconstitutional practices immediately.
After the court decision, other states that used the trusty system had to stop using it too. These states included Arkansas, Alabama, Louisiana, and Texas. However, some states, like Texas, continued to use trusty systems (renamed "building tenders") until the 1980s, when Federal Judge William Wayne Justice, in the case of "Ruiz v. Estelle", 503 F. Supp. 1265 (S.D. Tex. 1980), ordered Texas to end the system.

</doc>
<doc id="536905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536905" title="Ryan Drummond">
Ryan Drummond

Ryan Drummond (born January 10, 1973) is an American voice actor, mime and comedian. He is best known for voicing Sonic the Hedgehog in several installments of the "Sonic the Hedgehog" series from 1998 to 2004. He is also known for being the bass vocalist in the A.Y.U. Quartet since 1991. He has been starring in a musical comedy in San Diego called "Forever Plaid".
Drummond married his wife, Lisa Drummond, on October 8, 2002. They live in San Francisco, California. 

</doc>
<doc id="536907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536907" title="Instruction">
Instruction

Instruction(s) may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="536916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536916" title="Category:Disease-related deaths in Idaho">
Category:Disease-related deaths in Idaho


</doc>
<doc id="536922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536922" title="United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit">
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is one of the 13 appeals courts in the United States's federal court system. In case citations, the Court's name is abbreviated "5th Cir."
The Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit is the appeals court that has jurisdiction, or legal power, to review cases decided by less powerful courts in the 5th Circuit. These less powerful courts are called United States district courts. They are federal trial courts. If someone wants to appeal a decision that one of these courts made, they would have to appeal to the Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit.
These are the United States District Courts that are located in the 5th Circuit:
The Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit handles appeals from every one of these District Courts.
The Court has 17 judges. The main court building is located in the John Minor Wisdom United States Court of Appeals Building in New Orleans, Louisiana. The court clerk's office is at the Felix Edward Hébert Federal Building in New Orleans.
The Court met for the first time on June 16, 1891, in the Customs House in New Orleans.
The Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit decided a landmark case called "Gates v. Collier", which stopped the severe physical abuse of prisoners by "trustys" at Mississippi State Penitentiary (then called Parchman).

</doc>
<doc id="536928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536928" title="Steven Sample">
Steven Sample

Steven Browning Sample (November 29, 1940 – March 29, 2016) was the 10th president of the University of Southern California (USC). He became president in 1991 and was succeeded by C.L. Max Nikias on August 3, 2010.
Before he was president at USC, he held the same position at the University at Buffalo (UB) in the State University of New York (SUNY) system from 1982 to 1991. He was succeeded by William R. Greiner.
In 2001, Sample was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease, but said he still felt able to serve as president of USC. On March 29, 2016, Sample died at the age of 75. He had lived in San Marino, California.

</doc>
<doc id="536931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536931" title="Category:2010 in Asia">
Category:2010 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536932" title="Category:21st century in the Philippines">
Category:21st century in the Philippines


</doc>
<doc id="536933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536933" title="Category:2011 in Asia">
Category:2011 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536934" title="Category:2014 in Asia">
Category:2014 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536935" title="Category:2012 in Asia">
Category:2012 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536936" title="Category:2013 in Asia">
Category:2013 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="536954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536954" title="Category:Ring galaxies">
Category:Ring galaxies


</doc>
<doc id="536955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536955" title="Category:2010 establishments in the United States">
Category:2010 establishments in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="536956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536956" title="Category:2010s establishments in the United States">
Category:2010s establishments in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="536957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536957" title="Category:21st century establishments in New York">
Category:21st century establishments in New York


</doc>
<doc id="536959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536959" title="United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit">
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (in case citations, 9th Cir.) is the largest of the 13 appeals courts in the United States's federal court system. It hears cases from federal trials courts in nine western states and two Pacific Island jurisdictions.
It is a U.S. Federal court with appellate jurisdiction over the district courts in the following districts:
It also has appellate jurisdiction over the following territorial courts:
Headquartered in San Francisco, California, the Ninth Circuit is by far the largest of the thirteen courts of appeals, with 29 active judgeships. The court's regular meeting places are in Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Pasadena. Panels of the court occasionally travel to hear cases in other locations within the circuit. Although the judges travel around the circuit, the court arranges its hearings so that cases from the northern region of the circuit are heard in Seattle or Portland, cases from southern California are heard in Pasadena, and cases from northern California, Nevada, Arizona, and Hawaii are heard in San Francisco. For lawyers who must come and present their cases to the court in person, this administrative grouping of cases helps to reduce the time and cost of travel.
The large size of the current court is due to the fact that both the population of the western states and the geographic jurisdiction of the Ninth Circuit have increased dramatically since the U.S. Congress created the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in 1891. The court was originally granted appellate jurisdiction over federal district courts in California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington. As new states and territories were added to the federal judicial hierarchy in the twentieth century, many of those in the West were placed in the Ninth Circuit: the newly acquired Territory of Hawaii in 1900, Arizona upon its admission to the Union in 1912, the Territory of Alaska in 1948, Guam in 1951, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 1977.
The Ninth Circuit also had jurisdiction over certain American interests in China.
The Philippines were never under the Ninth Circuit's jurisdiction. Congress never created a federal district court in the Philippines from which the Ninth Circuit could hear appeals. Instead, appeals from the Supreme Court of the Philippines were taken directly to the Supreme Court of the United States.
In 1979, the Ninth Circuit became the first federal judicial circuit to set up a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel as authorized by the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978.
The cultural and political jurisdiction of the Ninth Circuit is just as varied as the land within its geographical borders. In a dissenting opinion in a rights of publicity case involving the "Wheel of Fortune" star Vanna White, Circuit Judge Alex Kozinski sardonically noted that "[f]or better or worse, we are the Court of Appeals for the Hollywood Circuit." Judges from more remote parts of the circuit note the contrast between legal issues confronted by populous states such as California and those confronted by rural states such as Alaska, Idaho, Montana, and Nevada.
Judge Andrew J. Kleinfeld, who maintains his judicial chambers in Fairbanks, Alaska, wrote in a letter in 1998: "Much federal law is not national in scope...It is easy to make a mistake construing these laws when unfamiliar with them, as we often are, or not interpreting them regularly, as we never do."

</doc>
<doc id="536975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536975" title="Action Comics">
Action Comics

Action Comics is an current comic book series. Superman first appeared in it. It is one of the longest comic series in America. It started in 1938.

</doc>
<doc id="536981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536981" title="Ricardo Goulart">
Ricardo Goulart


</doc>
<doc id="536982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536982" title="Mitigating factor">
Mitigating factor

When a person commits a capital crime, a mitigating factor is something that might help the person avoid getting the death penalty. ("To mitigate" means "to decrease." A "factor" is something that causes something else. So, in law, a mitigating factor is something that can cause punishment to decrease.)
Mitigating factors do not automatically result in decreased punishment. Judges and juries also think about aggravating factors things that are likely to cause a more severe punishment. 
Also, mitigating factors are not an excuse for committing a crime. They may help explain what caused a person to commit a crime, but they do not mean the person did nothing wrong. 
Sixteen countries in Africa have "abolished" the death penalty (made it illegal in the country). Another 22 countries have not used the death penalty in over 10 years, or have a moratorium (a temporary stop) on the death penalty.
According to Cornell University's Law School, as of 2015, only one of the countries in Africa that still uses the death penalty has laws about mitigating factors. That country is Botswana.
In Botswana, a person convicted of murder is given the death penalty unless they can show mitigating factors. However, the law in Botswana does not say what these mitigating factors could be, or give examples. This means it is up to each individual judge to decide whether something is a mitigating factor.
For example, in the past, judges have decided that mitigating factors include:
The law in Botswana does not allow judges to consider mitigating factors from "before" the murder. For example, if a person was abused as a child, or was abused by their victim, these could not count as extenuating circumstances. Only things that happened right at the time of the murder are considered as mitigating factors.
Nine countries in Africa that use the death penalty have mandatory death sentences for certain crimes. This means courts will not consider any mitigating factors, no matter what.
These countries are:
Only two countries in the Americas have executed a person in the past ten years: the United States and St. Kitts and Nevis. The rest have abolished the death penalty or have a moratorium in place.
St. Kitts and Nevis's last execution was in 2008.
St. Kitts and Nevis allows the death penalty for murder or treason. One of the country's Supreme Court decisions said that the death penalty must only be used with "the most exceptional and extreme cases of murder." However, the law does not seem to define what makes a murder "exceptional" and what mitigating factors might prevent the death penalty.
St. Kitts and Nevis does have a law against executing people who were under age 18 when they committed their crime.
In the United States, mitigating factors are very important in death penalty cases. Mitigating factors can help prosecutors decide whether to ask for the death penalty. Also, the United States Supreme Court has ruled several times that judges and juries must think about mitigating factors before deciding on a sentence.
The United States Supreme Court has made the mandatory death penalty illegal. To be fair, the Court ruled, each judge or jury has to think about whether an individual defendant deserves the death penalty. 
Here are some examples of the most common mitigating factors in federal and state laws:
Fourteen of the countries in the Asia-Pacific region that use the death penalty have the mandatory death penalty for certain crimes.
These countries are:
In 1968, a 19-year-old named Norio Nagayama murdered four people in Japan. The Japanese Supreme Court sentenced him to death. In the same ruling, the Supreme Court set out nine different things that Japanese courts needed to think about before sentencing a person to death:
However, these nine things are not all equal. For example, a person could have five mitigating factors (they were young, they felt terrible about the crime, and so on). However, if the victim's family very much wanted the killer to get the death penalty, the judge might order the death penalty anyway. In this Japanese system, mitigating factors do not "outweigh" aggravating factors.
In the late 1990s, China started working on making punishments fit the crime, instead of requiring the death penalty automatically for many crimes. For example, in 1999, China's Supreme People's Court ruled that the death penalty should not be used if there were mitigating circumstances for example, if a murder victim did something to cause the crime or make the situation worse.
In 2012, China wrote new rules for sentencing criminals. They include stricter rules for sentencing, so judges have a few specific choices for sentences. Then they can think about mitigating factors (and aggravating factors) to decide which of these choices fits the crime the best. Examples of mitigating factors under these new rules include surrendering and confessing to police.
In its own words, the Supreme People's Court said in a 2004 report that they had worked as hard as they could to make sure "that the death penalty shall only be applied to a very small number of criminals who have committed extremely serious crimes."
Political scholar Benjamin MacQueen writes that some Middle Eastern countries, like Algeria, give "mitigated sentences" to people who belong to terrorist groups or the insurgency (groups fighting against different governments in the Middle East. These people get they death sentences cancelled, and their prison sentences cut by years or even decades, he says. This way, the state and prison officials can look like they were doing nothing wrong; they were just letting people out early for behaving well in jail. At the same time, the terrorists and insurgents could go back to fighting, and the states could support them without looking like they really were.
As of January 2016, Belarus is the only country in Europe or Central Asia that still uses the death penalty. Some other countries still have death penalty laws, but they have not used the death penalty in over 10 years, or they have a moratorium (a temporary stop) on the death penalty. Outside of Belarus, nobody has been executed in Europe since 1997.
The European Union is strongly against the death penalty, and fights for this punishment to be ended throughout Europe. Any country that wants to be in the European Union must first end the death penalty in their country.
The law in Belarus allows the death penalty for murder, terrorism that causes death, treason, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide.
The only mitigating factor listed in Belarus's laws is mental illness. If a person becomes mentally ill after being sentenced, and they cannot understand or control their behavior, they are not given the death penalty. However, if they recover, they are executed, no matter how long it has been.
The law in Belarus also lists some groups of people that cannot be executed, no matter what. These groups include:
Since the end of the Nuremberg Trials after World War II, the major international courts in the world have outlawed the death penalty in their courts. For example, in 1993, the United Nations set up an International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (which is still prosecuting people as of 2016). In 1994, the United Nations Security Council set up the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, to look into and punish crimes committed during the Rwandan Genocide.. Neither of these courts were allowed to hand out death sentences.
In 1998, the International Criminal Court was created as a permanent international. Its job is to look into and try war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide, wherever in the world they happen. However, no matter how bad these crimes are, the ICC is not allowed to use the death penalty as a punishment.

</doc>
<doc id="536985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536985" title="Selkirk Transit">
Selkirk Transit

Selkirk Transit is a public transit system based in Selkirk, Manitoba. The operators are Selkirk and District handi bus.
Arboc spirit of mobility 
Grande west Vehicle: The grande west vehicle is 30 feet long.
In 2011, Selkirk Transit started with a cutaway bus.
In 2016, they have a big 30-foot bus.
 

</doc>
<doc id="536990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536990" title="Selkirk, Manitoba">
Selkirk, Manitoba

Selkirk is a city in Manitoba. It is west of Winnipeg. It was named after the 5th Earl of Selkirk. It was incorporated as a town in 1882 and as a city in 1998.
At the 2011 census, Selkirk's population was 9,834.
The city of Selkirk has 2 taxi services: Wills Taxi and First Rate Taxi.
It also has Selkirk Transit and Selkirk Mobility.
Selkirk has many businesses. These include McDonald's, Dairy Queen, and A&W. It also has Sterling Press and International Pipe.
Andrew Murray lives in Selkirk.
Selkirk is home to The MJHL Selkirk Steelers and the KHL Selkirk Fishermen.

</doc>
<doc id="536998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536998" title="Dan Green">
Dan Green

James Hadley "Jay" Snyder (born February 7, 1975) also known by his stage name as Dan Green, is an American voice actor, voice director and script adapter who is known for his work with 4Kids Entertainment, DuArt Film and Video, NYAV Post and Central Park Media. He is best known for his voice work as Yugi Mutou in the "Yu–Gi–Oh!" franchise and as Knuckles the Echidna in "Sonic X" and in the "Sonic the Hedgehog" video game franchise from 2005 to 2010.
He married his wife Michal Lura Friedman, a singer and fellow voice actress in 2008. they were married for four years until her death in 2011, from complications during childbirth. They have two children, Jackson James Snyder and Reverie Vivian Snyder.

</doc>
<doc id="537001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537001" title="Category:History of Mississippi">
Category:History of Mississippi


</doc>
<doc id="537002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537002" title="Category:History of Louisiana">
Category:History of Louisiana


</doc>
<doc id="537012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537012" title="United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit">
United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit

The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit is one of the 13 appeals courts in the United States's federal court system. In case citations, the Court's name is abbreviated "1st Cir."
The Court of Appeals for the 1st Circuit is the appeals court that has jurisdiction, or legal power, to review cases decided by less powerful courts in the 1st Circuit. These less powerful courts are called United States district courts. They are federal trial courts. If someone wants to appeal a decision that one of these courts made, they would have to appeal to the Court of Appeals for the 1st Circuit.
These are the United States District Courts that are located in the 1st Circuit:
The Court is based at the John Joseph Moakley Federal Courthouse in Boston, Massachusetts.
The First Circuit is the smallest of the thirteen United States courts of appeals. As of 2016, the Court has six full-time judges and six judges on senior status. Senior status is like being partly retired. Three of the Senior Judges do not hear any cases. The others may hear cases if they choose to.
Since he retired from the United States Supreme Court, Justice David Souter regularly sits on the First Circuit "by designation." This means he is a visiting judge who comes to hear cases at the First Circuit, to add his knowledge and experience.
The Court usually "sits" (meets at the Courthouse and hears cases) for one week a month, eleven months per year. Court sittings are held in the mornings, usually between 9:30 AM and 1:00 PM (EST). For one month out of the year either July or August the Court takes a summer break and does not meet.
This is the Court's normal schedule:
On March 3, 1891, the United States Congress created the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. Congress approved two judgeships for the Court (it allowed two judges to sit on the Court).
On January 28, 1915, Congress passed a law that added the District of Puerto Rico to the First Circuit. The law said that the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit would hear appeals from Puerto Rico's district court.
Over time, Congress approved more full-time judgeships for the Court:

</doc>
<doc id="537013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537013" title="Category:History of New Mexico">
Category:History of New Mexico


</doc>
<doc id="537014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537014" title="Category:History of Utah">
Category:History of Utah


</doc>
<doc id="537015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537015" title="Category:History of Illinois">
Category:History of Illinois


</doc>
<doc id="537019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537019" title="Category:History of Colorado">
Category:History of Colorado


</doc>
<doc id="537026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537026" title="Category:History of Arizona">
Category:History of Arizona


</doc>
<doc id="537027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537027" title="Zomi Baptist Church">
Zomi Baptist Church

The Zomi Baptist Church is a christian believer church. In India the Zomi Baptist Church (ZBC) was establish in 1982. The ZBC head quarter is at Champhai, India. In Myanmar the ZBC is known as ZBCM (Zomi Baptist Church lf Myanmar). Now the ZBC is established in US ,Tulsa and other country in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="537028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537028" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Angel De-Mar">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Angel De-Mar


</doc>
<doc id="537041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537041" title="Browder v. Gayle">
Browder v. Gayle

Browder v. Gayle, 142 F. Supp. 707 (1956), was a case heard before a three-judge panel of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama on Montgomery and Alabama state bus segregation laws. The District Court ruled 2-1, with one dissenting, on June 5, 1956 that bus segregation was unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment protections for equal treatment.
The state and city appealed, and the decision was upheld by the United States Supreme Court on November 13, 1956. A motion for clarification and for rehearing was denied on December 17, 1956.
About two months after the Montgomery Bus Boycott began, civil rights activists reconsidered the case of Claudette Colvin. She was a 15-year-old girl who had been the first person arrested in 1955 for refusing to give up her seat on a Montgomery, Alabama bus. Black leaders had been looking for a test case to test the constitutionality of the segregation laws of the state of Alabama and the city of Montgomery. One of the attorneys, Clifford Durr, was concerned that an appeal of Mrs. Rosa Parks' case would get tied up in the Alabama state courts. They needed a way to get directly to the federal courts. Colvin and several others who were discriminated against on Montgomery busses, agreed to become plaintiffs in a federal civil action lawsuit, thus bypassing the Alabama court system. The bus company said segregation was valid on "privately owned busses" which operated according to the laws of the city and state.
On February 1, 1956, the case of "Browder v. Gayle" was filed in U.S. District Court. Browder was a Montgomery housewife; W. A. Gayle was the mayor of Montgomery.
On June 13, 1956, the District Court ruled that "the enforced segregation of black and white passengers on motor buses operating in the City of Montgomery violates the Constitution and laws of the United States," because the conditions deprived people of equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment. The court further enjoined the state of Alabama and city of Montgomery from continuing to operate segregated buses.
The case was not completed until it was heard later that year by the US Supreme Court, as the state and city appealed the decision. On November 13, 1956, the Supreme Court upheld the District Court's ruling and ordered the state of Alabama (and Montgomery) to desegregate its buses. One month later on December 20, after Mayor Gayle was handed official written notice by federal marshals, the Montgomery buses were desegregated.

</doc>
<doc id="537046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537046" title="Category:20th century in Greece">
Category:20th century in Greece


</doc>
<doc id="537048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537048" title="Category:Federal judiciary of the United States">
Category:Federal judiciary of the United States


</doc>
<doc id="537049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537049" title="Category:United States courts of appeals">
Category:United States courts of appeals


</doc>
<doc id="537050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537050" title="Grace Poe">
Grace Poe

Grace Poe (born September 3, 1968) is the adopted daughter of Filipino actors Susan Roces and Fernando Poe, Jr. She served as chairperson of the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board (MTRCB) from 2010 to 2012 and in the Philippine Senate since 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="537052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537052" title="Miriam Defensor Santiago">
Miriam Defensor Santiago

Miriam Defensor Santiago (born June 15, 1945, died September 29, 2016) is a Filipino politician, notable for having served in all three branches of the Philippines government – judicial, executive, and legislative. 

</doc>
<doc id="537053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537053" title="Leni Robredo">
Leni Robredo

Leni Robredo is the widow of the Philippines Interior Secretary Jesse Robredo. She is currently serving as Member of the House of Representatives from Camarines Sur's Third District, and is running for the post of Vice President under the Liberal Party. 

</doc>
<doc id="537054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537054" title="Risa Hontiveros">
Risa Hontiveros

Risa Hontiveros (born February 24, 1966) is a Filipino socialist activist and journalist, who was the representative of Akbayan in the House of Representatives of the Philippines from 2004 to 2010. She is the older sister of journalists and television hosts Gringgay and Pia Hontiveros.

</doc>
<doc id="537055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537055" title="Leila de Lima">
Leila de Lima

Leila de Lima (born August 27, 1959) is a Filipino lawyer. She was appointed by President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo as Chairperson of the Commission on Human Rights on May 2008 and served until June 30, 2010 when she resigned and appointed by President Benigno Aquino III as Secretary of the Philippine Department of Justice. She resigned October 12, 2015 to focus on her candidacy for the Senate in the 2016 election.

</doc>
<doc id="537059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537059" title="Reconstruction Amendments">
Reconstruction Amendments

The Reconstruction Amendments are the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth amendments to the United States Constitution, adopted between 1865 and 1870, the five years immediately following the Civil War. The amendments were important in carrying out the reconstruction of the southern states after the war. Many northern politicians saw them as changing the United States from a country that was (in Abraham Lincoln's words) "half slave and half free" to one in which the constitutionally guaranteed "blessings of liberty" would be extended to all the people, including the former slaves and their descendants.
The Thirteenth Amendment (proposed and ratified in 1865) abolished slavery. The Fourteenth Amendment (proposed in 1866 and ratified in 1868) created the privileges and immunities clause, applicable to all citizens; and made the due process and equal protection clauses applicable to all persons. The Fifteenth Amendment, (proposed in 1869 and ratified in 1870) prohibits discrimination in voting rights of citizens on the basis of "race, color, or previous condition of servitude." 
The Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, except as punishment for a crime. It was passed by the U.S. Senate on April 8, 1864. The U.S. House of Representatives passed it on January 31, 1865. The measure was swiftly ratified by all but three Union states (the exceptions were Delaware, New Jersey, and Kentucky), and by a sufficient number of border and "reconstructed" Southern states. It was ratified by December 6, 1865. On December 18, 1865, Secretary of State William H. Seward proclaimed it to have been incorporated into the federal Constitution. It became part of the Constitution 61 years after the Twelfth Amendment. This is the longest interval between constitutional amendments to date.
The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was proposed by Congress on June 13, 1866. By July 9, 1868, it had received ratifications by the legislatures of the required number of states in order to officially become the Fourteenth Amendment. On July 20, 1868, Secretary of State William Seward certified that it had been ratified and added to the federal Constitution. The amendment addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws. It was proposed in response to issues related to treatment of freedmen following the war. The amendment was bitterly opposed, particularly by Southern states, which were forced to ratify it in order for their delegations to be able to return to Congress. The Fourteenth Amendment, particularly its first section, is one of the most litigated parts of the Constitution. It formed the basis for landmark decisions such as "Roe v. Wade" (1973), regarding abortion, and "Bush v. Gore" (2000), regarding the 2000 presidential election.
The Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal and state governments from denying a male citizen the right to vote based on that citizen's "race, color, or previous condition of servitude". It was ratified on February 3, 1870, as the third and last of the Reconstruction Amendments.
By 1869, amendments had been passed to abolish slavery and provide citizenship and equal protection under the laws. But the narrow election of Ulysses S. Grant to the presidency in 1868 convinced a majority of Republicans that black voters would be important for the party's future. After rejecting more sweeping versions of a suffrage amendment, Congress proposed a compromise amendment banning restrictions on the basis of race, color, or previous servitude on February 26, 1869. The amendment survived a difficult ratification fight and was adopted on March 30, 1870. After blacks gained the vote, the Ku Klux Klan directed some of their attacks to disrupt their political meetings and intimidate them at the polls, to suppress black participation. In the mid-1870s, there was a rise in new insurgent groups, such as the Red Shirts and White League, who acted on behalf of the Democratic Party to violently suppress black voting. While white Democrats regained power in southern state legislatures, through the 1880s and early 1890s, numerous blacks continued to be elected to local offices in many states, as well as to Congress as late as 1894.
From 1890 to 1910, all the states of the former Confederacy passed new constitutions and other laws that found new methods to get around the Fifteenth Amendment, such as poll taxes, residency rules, and literacy tests administered by white staff, sometimes with exemptions for whites via grandfather clauses. When challenges reached the Supreme Court, it interpreted the amendment narrowly, ruling based on the stated intent of the laws rather than their practical effect. The results in voter suppression were dramatic, as voter rolls fell: nearly all blacks, as well as tens of thousands of poor whites in Alabama and other states, were forced off the voter registration rolls and out of the political system, effectively excluding millions of people from representation. Democratic state legislatures passed racial segregation laws for public facilities and other types of Jim Crow restrictions. During this period of political struggle, the rate of lynchings in the South reached an all-time high.
In the twentieth century, the Court interpreted the amendment more broadly, striking down grandfather clauses in "Guinn v. United States" (1915). It took a quarter century to finally dismantle the white primary system in the "Texas primary cases" (1927–1953). With the South having become a one-party region after the disfranchisement of blacks, Democratic Party primaries were the only competitive contests in the states. But Southern states reacted rapidly to Supreme Court decisions, often devising new ways to continue to exclude blacks from voter rolls and voting; most blacks in the South did not gain the ability to vote until after passage of the mid-1960s federal civil rights legislation and beginning of federal oversight of voter registration and district boundaries. The Twenty-fourth Amendment (1964) forbade the requirement for poll taxes in federal elections; by this time five of the eleven southern states continued to require such taxes. Together with the US Supreme Court ruling in "Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections" (1966), which forbade requiring poll taxes in state elections, blacks regained the opportunity to participate in the American political system.
These amendments were intended to guarantee freedom to former slaves and to prevent discrimination in civil rights to former slaves and all citizens of the United States. The promise of these amendments was lessened by state laws and federal court decisions over the course of the 19th century. In 1876 and later, some states passed Jim Crow laws that limited the rights of African-Americans. Important Supreme Court decisions that undermined these amendments were the "Slaughter-House Cases" in 1873, which prevented rights guaranteed under the Fourteenth Amendment's privileges or immunities clause from being extended to rights under state law; and "Plessy v. Ferguson" in 1896 which originated the phrase "separate but equal" and gave federal approval to Jim Crow laws. The full benefits of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth amendments were not realized until the Supreme Court decision in "Brown v. Board of Education" in 1954 and laws such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

</doc>
<doc id="537068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537068" title="Adrienne Corri">
Adrienne Corri

Adrienne Corri (13 November 1930 – 13 March 2016) was a British actress. She was known for her role as Mrs. Alexander in Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange".
Corri died at her home in London on 13 March 2016 from coronary artery disease at the age of 84.

</doc>
<doc id="537069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537069" title="Shozo Awazu">
Shozo Awazu

Shozo Awazu (18 April 1923 – 17 March 2016) was a Japanese master of judo. He won the rank of Kōdōkan 9th Dan. He led the development of judo in France. He was born in Kyoto, Japan. Awazu was considered to be one of the top experts in ne waza (grappling techniques), kata and tandoku-renshu.
Awazu died in Paris, France on 17 March 2016 at the age of 92.

</doc>
<doc id="537070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537070" title="Miguel Hernández Agosto">
Miguel Hernández Agosto

Miguel Hernández Agosto (April 5, 1927 – March 18, 2016) was a Puerto Rican politician. He worked with the Popular Democratic Party (PPD). He started his political career as a Cabinet member, but eventually became a Senator at-large. Hernández Agosto served as President of the Senate of Puerto Rico for 12 years (1981-1993).
Agosto died in San Juan, Puerto Rico on March 18, 2016 at the age of 88.

</doc>
<doc id="537071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537071" title="Richard Bradford (actor)">
Richard Bradford (actor)

Richard Bradford (October 31, 1934 – March 22, 2016) was an American actor. He was known for his lead role as former CIA agent turned private eye McGill in the British TV adventure series "Man in a Suitcase", made by ITC in 1967. He was born in Tyler, Texas.
Bradford died on March 22, 2016 at the age of 81.

</doc>
<doc id="537072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537072" title="Maggie Blye">
Maggie Blye

Maggie Blye (October 24, 1942 – March 24, 2016) was an American actress. She was born in Houston, Texas. She was in the 1967 Paul Newman movie "Hombre" and the 1969 version of "The Italian Job". Her later television roles included "The Rockford Files", "Hart to Hart" and "".
Blye died on March 24, 2016 from cancer at her home in West Hollywood, California, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="537073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537073" title="Roger Cicero">
Roger Cicero

Roger Marcel Cicero Ciceu (6 July 1970 – 24 March 2016) was a German jazz and pop musician. He was born in Berlin, Germany. Cicero represented Germany at the Eurovision Song Contest 2007 in Helsinki his song "Frauen regier'n die Welt" (Women rule the world). He finished 19th. Cicero made his movie debut in "Hilde" (2009) as musician Ricci Blum.
Cicero died of a stroke in Hamburg, Germany on 24 March 2016, aged 45.

</doc>
<doc id="537074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537074" title="Esther Herlitz">
Esther Herlitz

Esther Herlitz (, 9 October 1921 – 24 March 2016) was an Israeli diplomat and politician. She served as a member of the Knesset for the Alignment between 1973 and 1977 and again from 1979 until 1981. She was also Israel's first female ambassador, having been appointed as the country's ambassador to Denmark in 1966.
Herlitz died on 24 March 2016 in Tel Aviv at the age of 94.

</doc>
<doc id="537075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537075" title="Marie-Claire Kirkland">
Marie-Claire Kirkland

Marie-Claire Kirkland-Casgrain (September 8, 1924 – March 24, 2016) was a Canadian lawyer, judge and politician. She was the first woman elected to the Legislative Assembly of Quebec. She was the first woman appointed a Cabinet minister in Quebec, the first woman appointed acting premier, and the first woman judge to serve in the Quebec Provincial Court.
On March 24, 2016, she died at the age of 91.

</doc>
<doc id="537076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537076" title="Tibor R. Machan">
Tibor R. Machan

Tibor Richard Machan (; 18 March 1939 – 24 March 2016) was a Hungarian-born American philosopher. He was the professor emeritus in the department of philosophy at Auburn University. Machan held the R. C. Hoiles Chair of Business Ethics and Free Enterprise at the Argyros School of Business & Economics at Chapman University in Orange, California until December 31, 2014.
On 24 March 2015, he died at the age of 77.

</doc>
<doc id="537088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537088" title="In re Gault">
In re Gault

In re Gault, , was a landmark case decided by the Supreme Court of the United States in 1967. The Court ruled that juveniles (children and teenagers) have the same rights as adults when they are accused of a crime. For example, they have due process rights, like the right to have a lawyer, when they are being questioned by the police, and when they are on trial.
The Court's ruling in this case was so important for children's rights that Justice Earl Warren said it would become "the Magna Carta for juveniles."
In the four years before the Supreme Court decided "In re: Gault", the Court also decided some other very important cases about due process rights the rights people have when they are accused of a crime. However, these rulings did not apply to children who were being tried in juvenile courts. 
The Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution says that "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to ... the Assistance of Counsel for his defence." ("Counsel" is a legal word for "lawyer.")
Also, the Fourteenth Amendment says that no state can take away any person's "life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person ... the equal protection of the laws."
Based on these two amendments, the Supreme Court decided these landmark cases:
These decisions, however, only applied to adult courts. While the Constitution never says that its rights are only for adults, American courts had never given juveniles the same due process rights as adults.
In the United States' court system, there are separate courts for children who are accused of committing crimes or having behavior problems. These are called "juvenile courts." 
Every state has its own laws about their juvenile courts. However, usually, if the judge rules that the child is "delinquent," the judge can make that child a "ward of the court." This means the judge is putting the court in charge of the child, and taking that power away from the child's parents. For the worst crimes, the court can decide to put the child in a special school, juvenile prison, or other program away from home, and keep them there until they turn 21. 
At the time that Gerald Gault was arrested, juveniles had very few rights in the juvenile justice system. For example, they could be put in jail without a trial, or without even knowing what crime they were being charged with. 
On June 8, 1964, the sheriff of Gila County, Arizona, arrested Gerald Gault, a fifteen-year-old eighth-grader. The sheriff did not tell Gault's parents that he had been arrested. He was arrested after a neighbor named into Ora Cook complained that she got an upsetting, vulgar phone call. At the time, Gault was on probation. He had been put on probation for six months, starting February 25, 1964, for being with another boy who stole a woman's wallet.
Meanwhile, Gault's mother came home and realized he was missing. She eventually found him at the county Children's Detention Home, but was she not allowed to take him home. Without being charged with a crime, Gault had been put in a juvenile jail.
Gault has always said that his friend Ronald Lewis made the call to Cook from the Gault family's trailer. In 2007, Gault said that once he heard what Lewis said, he kicked Lewis out.
The next morning, Gault had his first court hearing, in front of Judge McGhee. Judge McGhee usually worked in the Gila County Superior Court (an adult court), but was working in the juvenile court that day.
At the end of the hearing, Judge McGhee said he would think about what to do, and sent Gault back to jail. Gault was kept in jail for a few more days, then was sent home. Nobody ever explained why he was kept in jail or why he was let go. The day he came home, his mother got a note saying that Judge McGhee had ordered another hearing.
At the second hearing, McGhee ruled that Gault was "a delinquent child." This meant Gault had broken a state law. McGhee ordered Gault to be sent to the State Industrial School until he turned 21, unless the court decided to let him out before then. This punishment was based on a charge of "Lewd Phone Calls." If Gault had been convicted of the same crime as an adult, the Arizona laws would have allowed a maximum punishment of two months in prison and a fine of $5 to $50.
Gault's accuser, Mrs. Cook, was not at either hearing, even though Mrs. Gault had asked for her to come so she could identify whether Gerald or his friend had made the phone calls. Judge McGhee had said "she didn't have to be present." Judge McGhee had never told Gault's parents that they could bring a lawyer to the hearings or call witnesses to defend Gerald.
Also, nobody wrote a transcript (a record of exactly what was said) during either hearing. Because of this, there was no proof of what Gault or Judge McGhee said during these hearings. Later, Judge McGhee said Gault admitted to saying something "lewd" to Mrs. Cook. Both of Gault's parents insisted that Gerald never admitted to doing anything wrong.
At the time, Arizona law did not allow juvenile cases to be appealed. Gault's parents hired a lawyer named Amelia Lewis, who petitioned the Arizona Supreme Court for a writ of habeas corpus. This means they asked the Supreme Court to let Gerald go because his imprisonment was unfair. The Supreme Court sent the case to the Arizona Superior Court, a regular trial court, for a habeas corpus hearing. This hearing would decide whether Gault was sent to juvenile prison unfairly. 
The hearing was held on August 17, 1964. The Gaults' lawyer questioned Judge McGhee about the legal reasons for his actions. She asked McGhee to explain what laws he had used to find Gerald "delinquent." 
McGhee gave several answers:
Judge McGhee also said that Gerald was already on probation. This played a part in his decision, he said.
The court dismissed the habeas corpus petition. It ruled that Judge McGhee had enough evidence and legal reasons to send Gault to jail.
Next, Amelia Lewis and the Gaults appealed to the Arizona Supreme Court (99 Ariz. 181 (1965)). They had two main arguments. They argued that Gerald's conviction was not legal because he was not given the due process rights in the Constitution. They also argued that the state's set of juvenile laws, the Arizona Juvenile Code, was unconstitutional because it did not include these due process rights.
The Arizona Supreme Court ruled against the Gaults. They said that neither the Juvenile Code or Gerald's conviction violated due process.
Under United States law, the Gaults had only one legal option left. This option was to appeal to the United States Supreme Court, but to do this, they would need more lawyers, and that would be expensive. However, lawyers from the Arizona chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) got involved and worked with Amelia Lewis on the Supreme Court appeal. On December 16, 1966, they went before the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court had to answer three important legal questions in this case: a specific question, a general question, and a question that would affect every juvenile and court in the country.:
On May 15, 1967, the Supreme Court voted 81 in favor of the Gaults. They ruled that Gerald's due process rights "were" violated. 
Justice Abe Fortas wrote the Court's majority opinion. He wrote:
Justice Fortas pointed out that if Gerald were over 18, and were tried in adult court, he would have had many different rights, including the ones in this table.
However, because he was 15 and in juvenile court, Gerald got none of these rights.
In the Court's opinion, Justice Fortas wrote that without these due process rights, a person cannot get a fair trial, no matter what age they are. The Fourteenth Amendment says that "no state can take away any person's "life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person ... the equal protection of the laws." Since juvenile courts could take away children's freedom by sending them to juvenile prisons, they needed to give juvenile defendants full due process rights. They also needed to give them "equal protection of the laws" the same protections an adult at risk of going to jail would get.
The Court threw out Gerald's conviction and ordered him to be set free. He had spent three years in the Industrial School: two years and ten months longer than he could have possibly spent in prison if he was convicted as an adult.
The Court also ruled Arizona's Juvenile Code unconstitutional. They ruled that Juvenile Codes had to include due process rights.
Before "In re Gault", juveniles accused of crimes had very few rights. "In re Gault" gave due process rights, which juveniles had never had, to children and teenagers being accused of crimes. These protections apply to all juveniles in the United States, not just Arizona. After this decision, by law, all juveniles being accused of crimes must be given the rights in the Fourteenth Amendment. For example:
In other words, "In re Gault" ruled that every juvenile court in the country had to follow the Fourteenth Amendment.

</doc>
<doc id="537116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537116" title="Deaths in April 2016">
Deaths in April 2016

The following is a list of notable deaths in April 2016. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Months". Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

</doc>
<doc id="537117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537117" title="Leonard L. Northrup Jr.">
Leonard L. Northrup Jr.

Leonard "Lynn" L. Northrup Jr. (March 18, 1918 – March 24, 2016) was an American engineer. He created the commercialization of solar thermal energy. He was inspired by John Yellott, Dr. Maria Telkes, and Harry Tabor. 
Northrup's company designed, patented, developed and manufactured some of the first commercial solar water heaters, solar concentrators, solar-powered air conditioning systems, solar power towers and photovoltaic thermal hybrid systems in the United States. 
he company he founded became part of ARCO Solar, which in turn became BP Solar, which became the largest solar energy company in the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="537118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537118" title="Paolo Poli">
Paolo Poli

Paolo Poli (May 23, 1929 – March 25, 2016) was an Italian theatre actor. He has also acted in movies and on television. He starred in many famous operas such as "Aldino mi cali un filino", "Rita of Cascia", "Caterina de Medici", "L'asino d'oro", "Gulliver's Travels", "La leggenda di San Gregorio", "Il coturno della ciabatta", and "La nemica'

</doc>
<doc id="537119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537119" title="Imre Pozsgay">
Imre Pozsgay

Imre András Pozsgay (26 November 1933 – 25 March 2016) was a Hungarian Communist politician.
He played a key role in Hungary's fight for democracy after 1988. He served as Minister of Culture (1976–1980), Minister of Education (1980–1982) and Minister of State (1988–1990). He was also a Member of Parliament from 1983 to 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="537123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537123" title="David Snellgrove">
David Snellgrove

David Llewellyn Snellgrove (29 June 192025 March 2016) was a British Tibetologist. He was known for his pioneering work on Buddhism in Tibet as well as his many travelogues. He was born in Portsmouth, Hampshire. 
In 1950, after having finishing his studies at Cambridge, he was invited to teach a course in elementary Tibetan at the School of Oriental and African Studies University of London. He was Professor of Tibetan at SOAS until his retirement in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="537126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537126" title="Alain Decaux">
Alain Decaux

Alain Decaux (23 July 1925 − 27 March 2016) was a French writer and historian. He was born in Lille, France. He was elected to the Académie française on 15 February 1979.
In 2005, he was, with others authors as Frédéric Beigbeder, Richard Millet and Jean-Pierre Thiollet, among the Beirut Book Fair's guests in the Beirut International Exhibition & Leisure Center, commonly BIEL.
Decaux died on 27 March 2016 in Paris, France at the age of 90.

</doc>
<doc id="537129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537129" title="Antoine Demoitié">
Antoine Demoitié

Antoine Demoitié (16 October 1990 – 27 March 2016) was a Belgian cyclist. He last rode for Wanty–Groupe Gobert in 2016. He joined the team in 2016 after leaving Wallonie-Bruxelles at the end of the 2015 season. He was born in Liège, Wallonia, Belgium.
Demoitié died on 27 March 2016 after he crashed and went down in a pile-up of several cyclists. He was then hit by a motorcycle in the Gent–Wevelgem road race. He died that evening in hospital in Lille, Hauts-de-France, France, aged 25.

</doc>
<doc id="537133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537133" title="Category:Deaths from cerebrovascular disease">
Category:Deaths from cerebrovascular disease


</doc>
<doc id="537135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537135" title="Cerebrovascular disease">
Cerebrovascular disease

Cerebrovascular disease, stroke or cerebrovascular accident, is a vascular disease of the cerebral circulation. Arteries supplying oxygen to the brain are affected resulting in one of a number of cerebrovascular diseases. Most commonly this is a stroke or mini-stroke and sometimes can be a hemorrhagic stroke. Any of these can result in vascular dementia.
Causes of cerebrovascular disease can be divided into: atherosclerosis, embolism, aneurysms, low flow states, and other rare causes. Major modifiable risk factors include:
Treatment for cerebrovascular disease includes medication, lifestyle changes and surgery.
Examples of medications are:
Surgical procedures include:

</doc>
<doc id="537140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537140" title="James Noble (actor)">
James Noble (actor)

James Wilkes Noble (March 5, 1922 – March 28, 2016) was an American actor. He was best known for his role of the sweet-natured but naive Governor on ABC's 1980s sitcom "Benson". He was born in Dallas, Texas. He retired from acting in 2010. 
Noble died from complications of a stroke at his home in Norwalk, Connecticut on March 28, 2016, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="537142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537142" title="Jean-Pierre Coffe">
Jean-Pierre Coffe

Jean-Pierre Coffe (March 24, 1938 – March 29, 2016) was a French radio and television presenter, food critic and author. Coffe then began a career in television in the early 1980s. He joined Canal+ in 1984. In 1992 and 1993, he made his first appearances in "La Grande Famille" hosted by Jean-Luc Delarue. He then joined the French public television channels where he hosted a cooking program with children titled "Comment c'est fait ?" ("How is it done?") from 1992 to 1993 on France 3.
On 29 March 2016, Coffe died at his home in Lanneray, France, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="537143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537143" title="Béla Biszku">
Béla Biszku

Béla Biszku (13 September 1921 – 31 March 2016) was a Hungarian communist politician. He served as Minister of the Interior from 1957 to 1961. He was charged of suspicion of committing war crimes during the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. He became the first and to date only former top-official in Hungary who has been prosecuted because of political role in the communist era.
Biszku died in Budapest on 31 March 2016 at the age of 94.

</doc>
<doc id="537144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537144" title="Georges Cottier">
Georges Cottier

Georges Marie Martin Cottier O.P., (25 April 1922 – 31 March 2016) was a Swiss Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, Archbishop, Dominican, Theologian emeritus of the Pontifical Household.
Cottier was born in Carouge, Switzerland. He joined the Dominican Order in 1945. Cottier studied theology and philosophy at the Pontificium Athenaeum Internationale Angelicum, the future Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, "Angelicum" until 1952. While at the "Angelicum" he was ordained a priest in 1951.
He was a professor at the Universities of Geneva and Fribourg. He became secretary of the International Theological Commission in 1989. He was nominated Pro-Theologian of the Pontifical Household in 1990. He was appointed Titular Archbishop of Tullia in 2003 and consecrated on 20 October 2003.
He was named Cardinal-Deacon of Santi Domenico e Sisto, the University Church of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, "Angelicum" by Pope John Paul II in the Consistory of October 21, 2003. He served 10 years as a cardinal-deacon. He was promoted to cardinal-priest by Pope Francis on June 12, 2014.
Cottier died on 31 March 2016 at the age of 93.

</doc>
<doc id="537145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537145" title="Zaha Hadid">
Zaha Hadid

Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid, DBE RA ( "Zahā Ḥadīd"; 31 October 1950 – 31 March 2016) was an Iraqi-born British architect. She was elected a Royal Academician in 2005. She became the first woman to receive the Pritzker Prize (2004). She received the Stirling Prize in 2010 and 2011. In 2012, she was created a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire and in 2015 she became the first woman to be awarded the RIBA Gold Medal.
Hadid's buildings are neo-futuristic, characterized by curving forms with "multiple perspective points and fragmented geometry to evoke the chaos of modern life".
On 31 March 2016, Hadid died of a heart attack in a Miami hospital, where she was being treated for bronchitis, aged 65.

</doc>
<doc id="537148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537148" title="Gianmaria Testa">
Gianmaria Testa

Gianmaria Testa (17 October 1958 – 30 March 2016) was an Italian singer-songwriter. In the early 1990s, Testa won two consecutive top prizes at the Recanati Festival. He was born in Cavallermaggiore, Italy. 
Testa died in Alba, Piedmont on 30 March 2016, aged 57.

</doc>
<doc id="537149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537149" title="Bernard Lamarre">
Bernard Lamarre

Bernard Lamarre (6 August 1931 – 30 March 2016) was a Canadian engineer and businessman. He was born in Chicoutimi, Quebec in 1931. 
Lamarre received a Bachelor of Appled Sciences in Civil Engineering from the École Polytechnique de Montréal in 1952. He received a Master of Science degree from Imperial College of Science and Technology in 1955. He started work as a soil mechanics engineer with the firm of Lalonde & Valois eventually becoming president and chief executive officer of the firm now called Lavalin Group. He was president of "Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec" from 1993 to 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="537150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537150" title="Jim Harrison">
Jim Harrison

James "Jim" Harrison (December 11, 1937 – March 26, 2016) was an American author. He was known for his poetry, fiction, reviews, essays about the outdoors, and writings about food. He was best known for his 1979 novella "Legends of the Fall". He has been called "a force of nature", and his work has been compared to that of William Faulkner and Ernest Hemingway.
Harrison died of a heart attack on March 26, 2016, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="537152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537152" title="Benedict of Nursia">
Benedict of Nursia

Bedenict of Nursia was the founder of the Benedictine order. He was born around 480, in Nursia (in Perugia, south of Italy), and died on the 24th of March 547, in Montecassino, about south of Rome. Around 521, he founded the monastery at Montecassino which became the first Benedictine abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="537154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537154" title="Executive Order 9066">
Executive Order 9066

Executive Order 9066 was a presidential executive order. It was signed and issued during World War II by the President of the United States Franklin D. Roosevelt on February 19, 1942, authorizing the Secretary of War to prescribe certain areas as military zones. The order cleared the way for the deportation of Japanese Americans to internment camps. As a result, tens of thousands of Japanese Americans and Japanese nationals were interned during the war. The same order was also applied to numbers of American residents of Italian or German descent.
After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the United States was very suddenly at war. Fear, outrage and hatred of the Japanese over the surprise attack was aimed at the Japanese Americans living in the U.S. It became a common belief that the amount of destruction, including most of the U.S. Naval fleet, was because Japanese Americans helped plan the attack. There was also the immediate fear that with the Pacific fleet severely damaged, the Japanese would invade the West Coast of the United States. 
President Franklin Roosevelt issued the order on February 19, 1942. It ordered the evacuation of all persons who could be considered a threat to national security from the West Coast to relocation centers further inland. Over 100,000 Japanese American men, women and children were moved to assembly areas. From there they were moved to camps which were isolated and guarded.
In part, the order read:

</doc>
<doc id="537159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537159" title="David Baker (composer)">
David Baker (composer)

David Nathaniel Baker Jr. (December 21, 1931 – March 26, 2016) was an American symphonic jazz composer. He worked at the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music in Bloomington. He has more than 65 recordings, 70 books, and 400 articles to his credit. He was born in Indianapolis, Indiana. Baker was nominated for the 1973 Pulitzer Prize. He has also been nominated for a Grammy Award (1979).
Baker died in Bloomington, Indiana on March 26, 2016, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="537160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537160" title="Igor Pashkevich">
Igor Pashkevich

Igor Anatolyevich Pashkevich (; 1 July 1971 – 26 March 2016) was a Russian figure skating coach and competitor. He was the 1990 World Junior champion for the Soviet Union and the 1996 European silver medalist for Russia. He competed at the 1994 Lillehammer Olympics for Russia and the 1998 Nagano Olympics for Azerbaijan.
Pashkevich died on 26 March 2016 in Miami, Florida at the age of 44.

</doc>
<doc id="537161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537161" title="Norm Hadley">
Norm Hadley

Norman "Norm" Hadley (2 December 1964 – 26 March 2016) was a Canadian professional rugby union player. He was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba.
He played professionally first for London Wasps and then Bedford Blues in the 1990s. He played for James Bay and UBCOB Ravens (British Columbia Rugby Union). He earned an M.B.A. degree from UBC in 1991. He played for Western Suburbs in Wellington, New Zealand. He played for quarter-finalist Canada in the 1991 Rugby World Cup. In total he earned 15 caps for Canada between 1987 and 1994. 
Hadley died in Japan on 26 March 2016, aged 51.

</doc>
<doc id="537163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537163" title="Anne Aasheim">
Anne Aasheim

Anne Aasheim (22 April 1962 – 30 March 2016) was a Norwegian editor. She was born in Porsgrunn, Norway. She started her journalist career in the neighboring city's largest newspaper "Varden" in the late 1970s. She worked in "Dagen" and "Bergens Arbeiderblad" before being hired in NRK Hordaland in 1988.
Aasheim died of lung cancer in Oslo, Norway on 30 March 2016, aged 54.

</doc>
<doc id="537164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537164" title="Bill Rosendahl">
Bill Rosendahl

William Joseph "Bill" Rosendahl (May 15, 1945 – March 30, 2016) was an American politician. He served on the Los Angeles City Council. He represented Council District 11 from 2005 to 2013. He was a member of the Democratic Party.
Rosendahl was openly gay. Rosendahl died at his home in Mar Vista, Los Angeles of ureteral cancer on March 30, 2016 at the age of 70.

</doc>
<doc id="537165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537165" title="Ureteral cancer">
Ureteral cancer

Ureteral cancer is cancer of the ureters, muscular tubes that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. It is also known as ureter cancer, renal pelvic cancer, and rarely ureteric cancer or uretal cancer. This kind of cancer is very rare.
Ureteral cancer is usually transitional cell carcinoma. Transitional cell carcinoma is "a common cause of ureter cancer and other urinary (renal pelvic) tract cancers."

</doc>
<doc id="537166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537166" title="Artur Górski">
Artur Górski

Artur Górski (30 January 1970 – 1 April 2016) was a Polish politician. He was elected to the Sejm on September 25, 2005 getting 2850 votes in 19 Warsaw district. He was a member of the Law and Justice ticket. He was re-elected in 2007 and was in office until his death. Górski was also the first chairman of the Conservative-Monarchist Club.
Górski died in Warsaw, Poland from leukemia on 1 April 2016, aged 46.

</doc>
<doc id="537167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537167" title="Denise Robertson">
Denise Robertson

Denise Robertson MBE, DL (9 June 1932 – 31 March 2016) was a British writer and television broadcaster. She made her television debut as the presenter of the "Junior Advice Line" segment of the BBC's "Breakfast Time" programme in 1985. She was best known as the resident agony aunt on the ITV show "This Morning" from its first ever broadcast on 3 October 1988 until her death in 2016.
Robertson died from pancreatic cancer at Royal Marsden Hospital in London, England, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="537171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537171" title="Clodomir Santos de Morais">
Clodomir Santos de Morais

Clodomir Santos de Morais, PhD (30 September 1928 – 25 March 2016), was a Brazilian sociologist. He worked with the Organization Workshop (OW) and the associated Activity-based Large Group Capacitation Method (LGCM).
In the 1940s and 1950s de Morais worked as a trade unionist and a journalist. He became a member of the Pernambuco State Assembly and co-founder of the Ligas Camponêsas (Peasant Leagues). After the 1964 coup he was forced into exile, first in Chile, and, as ILO Regional Advisor on Agrarian Reform for Central America, he later worked as Agrarian Reform consultant in Latin America, Portugal and Africa.
After the end of military rule de Morais returned to Brazil in 1988, answering a call from the University of Brasilia to help in the 'hidden civil war' of unemployment.

</doc>
<doc id="537173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537173" title="Adam Żurowski">
Adam Żurowski

Adam Roman Żurowski (3 March 1929 – 25 March 2016) was a Polish surveyor. He was the professor of technical sciences at the Gdansk University of Technology. He was also Dean of the Faculty Hydrotechnics from 1990 through 1993. He was Head of the Department of Geodesy from 1985 through 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="537174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537174" title="Vince Boryla">
Vince Boryla

Vincent Joseph Boryla (March 11, 1927 – March 27, 2016) was an American basketball player, coach and executive. His nickname was "Moose". 
Boryla was born in East Chicago, Indiana. He studied at East Chicago Washington High School in 1944. He played basketball at the University of Notre Dame and the University of Denver. Boryla was part of the U.S team that won the gold medal at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London.
Boryla played for the New York Knicks in the early 1950s. In 1951, Boryla scored nine points in the 1951 NBA All-Star Game. He played in the NBA Finals in 1951 and 1953. Boryla was not in the 1952 playoffs. He later became the Knicks' coach from 1956 to 1958, and had an 80-85 record with them.
Later in his career, Boryla became the general manager of the American Basketball Association's Denver Nuggets early in their history when they were first the Kansas City ABA team and then the Denver Larks. He was also the general manager of the ABA's Utah Stars. Boryla later rejoined the Nuggets when the franchise joined the NBA. He won the NBA Executive of the Year Award with the Nuggets in 1984. 
Boryla died in Denver, Colorado on March 27, 2016 from complications of pneumonia, aged 89.
Boryla was added into the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame, and in 1984 into the National Polish-American Hall of Fame. 

</doc>
<doc id="537175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537175" title="Spahn Ranch">
Spahn Ranch

Spahn Ranch, also known as the Spahn Movie Ranch, was a large movie ranch in Los Angeles County, California. It was used for filming mostly old Western movies and television programs. With its mountains and western scenery, the ranch was ideal for cowboy and Indian type shows. Some of the well known TV shows which were made at Spahn were episodes of Bonanza, The Lone Ranger, and Zorro.
The ranch is no longer in use. The entrance was at 12000 Santa Susana Pass Road but the street number has changed. The ranch was very popular due to its being a home for Charles Manson and his followers. They lived there during 1968 and 1969. It was owned and named after a dairy farmer named George Spahn.
George Spahn, an old man whom lived and owned the ranch decided to allow Charles Manson and his 'family' to move in, rent-free, in exchange for helping out on the ranch. Manson and his family did daily chores and helped run the horse rental business, which had become Spahn's main source of income.. One of the Manson girls, Lynette Fromme, would take care of George Spahn, who was half blind, needed and appreciated the assistance. George Spahn was never accused of any involvement in the crimes for which members of the Family were later convicted, the most infamous being the Tate-LaBianca murders committed on August 9th and 10th, 1969. In the months after, a documentary film creator named Robert Hendrickson began filming the Manson Family at the ranch for his documentary film "Manson". There he filmed George Spahn, Lynette Fromme, Nancy Pittman, Catherine Share, Sandra Good, Paul Watkins and many others. It is the place where the 'family' lived while committing the 1969 Tate-LaBianca murders in Los Angeles. A wildfire destroyed all of the Spahn Movie Ranch film set and building on September 26, 1970. The owner, George Spahn died on September 22, 1974. 
The Spahn Movie Ranch site is empty, abandoned and now part of California's Santa Susana Pass State Historic Park with the historic section along Old Santa Susana Stage Road, on the park's northern side. Many hiking trails give access to the natural beauty and the panoramic views of the San Fernando Valley. Today, the only physical remains of what was once the Manson residence is known as the Manson Family Cave, so called from a popular photo which has circulated over the years which still is intact and exactly how it appeared back then. 

</doc>
<doc id="537176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537176" title="Daan Myngheer">
Daan Myngheer

Daan Myngheer (13 April 1993 – 28 March 2016) was a Belgian cyclist. In 2015, he was a member of the Verandas Willems cycling team and in 2016 he was a member of the Roubaix–Lille Métropole. He was born in Roeselare, Belgium.
Myngheer died in a hospital in Ajaccio, France after suffering a heart attack during the Criterium International, aged 22.

</doc>
<doc id="537177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537177" title="Khuzaima Qutbuddin">
Khuzaima Qutbuddin

Khuzaima Qutbuddin (5 June 1940 – 31 March 2016) was a claimant to the title of 53rd Da'i al-Mutlaq of the Dawoodi Bohras. It is a subgroup within the Mustaali, Ismaili Shia branch of Islam. Qutbuddin was appointed "Da'i Madhun" (mazoon mola) by the Syedna Muhammad Burhanuddin in 1965.
Qutbuddin died on 31 March 2016 in Bakersfield, California from cancer, aged 75.

</doc>
<doc id="537178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537178" title="Howard Cable">
Howard Cable

Howard Reid Cable (December 15, 1920March 30, 2016) was a Canadian conductor, arranger, music director, composer, and radio and television producer. He was born in Toronto, Ontario. He received an Associate diploma (ATCM) from The Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto in conducting and bandmastership 1939. Cable composed and arranged the original theme for the "Hockey Night in Canada" television broadcast, "The Saturday Game" which opened the broadcast from 1952 until 1968.
Cable died from complications of pneumonia at his home in Toronto, Ontario on March 30, 2016, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="537179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537179" title="Miranda warning">
Miranda warning

A Miranda warning is a list of rights that people in the United States have when they are being questioned by the police or arrested. These rights are called Miranda rights. Because of a United States Supreme Court decision in a case called "Miranda v. Arizona", , the police have to give a person this list of rights before they start questioning them. 
One goal of the Miranda warning is to make sure that suspects' rights under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to the Constitution are protected. Another goal is to make sure suspects know about their rights, and know that they can use them.
In "Miranda v. Arizona", a man named Ernesto Miranda confessed to raping and murdering a 17-year-old girl. Miranda was convicted and sent to prison. However, he and his lawyers appealed his conviction all the way to the Supreme Court. They argued that Miranda's confession should not have been used as evidence because:
The Sixth Amendment protects the right to a lawyer, but the Supreme Court had also just recently made two landmark decisions about this right. In 1963, the Court ruled in "Gideon v. Wainwright", , that anyone being tried for a crime had the right to a lawyer. If the person could not pay for a lawyer, the state had to assign them a free lawyer. The next year, the Court ruled in another landmark case called "Escobedo v. Illinois", , that anyone suspected of a crime had the right to have a lawyer with them while the police questioned them.
The Supreme Court decided the police got Miranda's confession by ignoring his rights, and they threw out Miranda's conviction. (Miranda was re-tried, and even without the confession as evidence, he was convicted again.)
The Court also ruled that police have to make sure suspects know and understand their rights before being interrogated. Specifically, police have to give a "Miranda warning" that tells suspects they have these rights:
An example of a Miranda warning often used in the United States is:
Many people from all over the world know these words from television and think of this as ""the" Miranda warning." However, there is no one version of the Miranda warning. Different people, police departments, and states use different words. The Supreme Court has said the words can change, as long as the four basic parts of the warning are there. In Simple English, they are:
There are at least 945 different versions of the Miranda warning just in English. Some try to make the warning easier for juveniles or people with learning disabilities, intellectual disabilities, or mental illnesses to understand. However, studies have shown that in fact, people in these groups often have even "more" trouble understanding the 'simpler' versions.
The Miranda warning has also had to be translated into many different languages. Many different police departments carry cards that show the warning in different languages. Others use translators to give the warning.
The law says the police have to give a suspect a Miranda warning before they start questioning them. If they do not, and the suspect gives a confession, that confession could later be thrown out in court. This means a court could rule that the confession cannot be used as evidence in a trial. A confession can also be thrown out if the police gave a Miranda warning, but gave it the wrong way, or did not make sure the suspect understood it. (This is discussed more in the "Problems" section.)
For Miranda rights to be an issue at a trial, six things must be true:
If these six things are true, then the prosecution has to prove that:
If the prosecution cannot prove each of these things, the confession can be thrown out.
Studies of many different versions of the Miranda warning have shown that most of them are complex. The more complex the Miranda warning is, the harder it is to understand.
For example, one study from 2008 looked at how complex the sentences were in the average Miranda warning. They found a "sentence complexity" score of 48.96 which meant the sentences were as complicated as the instructions on United States tax forms. In some of the warnings, the information about Miranda rights was more complex than a college-level accounting textbook.
Some areas have "simplified" versions of the Miranda warning. However, researchers have found that these versions are not always easier to understand. A person would need high school-level reading and language skills to understand some of them.
In a study of 560 different English versions of the Miranda warning, researchers found that a person would need 7th-grade reading skills to understand the simplest versions. To understand the most complicated Miranda warnings, a person would need a doctoral-level education (the highest level of education you can get at a university).
According to the American Psychological Association, people are so used to hearing the Miranda warning on television that they think they understand their rights. However, a 2011 study by Richard Rogers says that many people do not understand their Miranda rights, or have wrong beliefs about them. For example, Rogers found that 31% of defendants waiting for trials in Texas and Oklahoma did not understand their right to remain silent. They believed that if they did not answer questions, the court would use that as evidence of their guilt. Rogers also found that 36% of college students believed the same thing.
Other studies have shown that most juveniles (children and teenagers) "and" many adults do not understand their rights well enough to decide when to use them and when to waive them (not use them). For example, in one study, a researcher asked juveniles and adults to repeat back the Miranda warning in their own words. The researcher also asked them to define six of the most important words in the Miranda warning, like "consult," "appoint," and "attorney." Finally, the researcher tested whether they could understand different versions of the Miranda warning. He found:
No Supreme Court ruling or federal law has ever said that children must have a parent or lawyer with them while being questioned. About 12 states have chosen to add extra protections for juveniles in their states, like not letting juveniles waive their Miranda rights without a parent or guardian there. However, most states have not done this. This means that in most states, juveniles can waive their rights on their own.
A famous study done by Richard Rogers and others in 2008 looked at Miranda warnings that were meant to be simplified versions for juveniles. He found that these warnings were longer than the non-simplified versions; some had as many as 526 words. Understanding them also required "higher" reading levels and abilities than the adult versions.
Another study, done in 2013, found that 16- and 17-year-olds charged with a felony almost always waived their Miranda rights. They waived their rights 93% of the time, while adults waived their rights 80% of the time. Especially when juveniles waive their rights and agree to talk to police without a lawyer, they are much more likely to confess to something they did not actually do. Looking at people who were proven to be innocent, studies found that one-third to two-fifths of untrue confessions came from juveniles. Police got almost 7 out of every 10 of these false confessions from children ages 15 and under.
A report from the American Bar Association suggests this version of the Miranda warning for juveniles:
Translating the Miranda warning into other languages brings up special problems. There have been many cases where suspects' confessions have been challenged and thrown out in court because of problems giving the Miranda warning in other languages. For example, since 1993, there have been lawsuits about:
The Miranda warning is also difficult to translate into some languages. Not all languages have words for the same ideas as English. For example, American Sign Language has no signs for legal words like "rights."

</doc>
<doc id="537180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537180" title="Douglas Wilmer">
Douglas Wilmer

Douglas Wilmer (8 January 1920 – 31 March 2016) was an English actor. He was best known for playing Sherlock Holmes in the 1965 TV series. He also appeared in "Jason and the Argonauts", the Pink Panther movies "A Shot in the Dark" (1964) and "Revenge of the Pink Panther" (1978), "The Vampire Lovers" (1970), "The Golden Voyage of Sinbad" (1974), and "Octopussy" (1983).
On 31 March 2016, it was reported by Roger Moore by social media that Wilmer had died at the age of 96.

</doc>
<doc id="537181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537181" title="Pratyusha Banerjee">
Pratyusha Banerjee

Pratyusha Banerjee (10 August 1991 – 1 April 2016) was an Indian movie and television actress. She started her career with "Balika Vadhu" as Anandi. She was also a contestant on "Bigg Boss 7". She had signed as a host with reality-based crime saga "Savdhaan India" for the special segment on "women against crime". She had worked in "Pyaar Tune Kya Kiya" in 2014 and was last seen in "Hum Hain Na". 
Banerjee committed suicide by hanging herself on April 1, 2016. She was declared dead at Kokilben Ambani hospital in Mumbai after doctors failed to revive her. She was aged 24.

</doc>
<doc id="537186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537186" title="Grant Tinker">
Grant Tinker

Grant Almerin Tinker (January 11, 1926 – November 28, 2016) was an American television producer and executive. 
He was the former chairman and CEO of NBC from 1981 to 1986. He is the co-founder of MTM Enterprises. Tinker was the former husband of actress Mary Tyler Moore. After leaving NBC, Tinker tried to repeat his success with MTM Enterprises by forming GTG (Grant Tinker-Gannett) Entertainment but the business venture failed and the company closed in 1990.
Tinker was born in Stamford, Connecticut. His parents were Margaret (née Hessin) and Arthur Almerin Tinker. Tinker died on November 28, 2016 of natural causes in Los Angeles, California, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="537189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537189" title="Chris O'Dowd">
Chris O'Dowd

Christopher "Chris" O'Dowd (born 9 October 1979) is an Irish actor and comedian. He was best known for his role as Roy Trenneman in the Channel 4 comedy "The IT Crowd". 
O'Dowd created and starred in the Sky 1 television series "Moone Boy", which aired between 2012 and 2015. He had a recurring role on the drama series "Girls" and starred in the television series "Family Tree".
O'Dowd is also known for his movies, most notably "Bridesmaids" (2011), "This Is 40" (2012), "The Sapphires" (2012), "" (2013), "Calvary" (2014) and "St. Vincent" (2014).

</doc>
<doc id="537190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537190" title="Category:547 deaths">
Category:547 deaths


</doc>
<doc id="537191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537191" title="Category:547">
Category:547


</doc>
<doc id="537194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537194" title="Category:Unreferenced BLPs from April 2016">
Category:Unreferenced BLPs from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537195" title="Category:Clean up categories from April 2016">
Category:Clean up categories from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537198" title="State governments of the United States">
State governments of the United States

In the United States, each of the 50 states has its own state government. This means there are 50 separate state governments of the United States. 
The state governments are mostly set up in the same way as the federal government of the United States. However, the state and federal governments are not the same. Mostly, each state government controls things that have to do with its own state. The federal government controls things that affect the whole country.
The United States Constitution divides power between the state governments and the federal government. The Founding Fathers of the United States wrote the Constitution this way to make sure that neither the federal government or the states could get too powerful.
Every state has its own state legislature, which makes laws that affect that state only.
Each of the 50 states, except Nebraska, has a "bicameral" legislature. This means there are two different parts, called "houses," to the legislature. Usually, the two houses are called the Senate and the House of Representatives. Nebraska has a "unicameral" legislature, meaning it only has one house: the Senate.
Different states have different names for their legislatures:
These next two sections will talk about the bicameral state legislatures (the ones with two different parts (unlike Nebraska).
One of the two different houses of the state legislatures is called the Senate. Sometimes it is called the State Senate, to make it clear that it is different from the federal government's United States Senate.
Until 1964, state senators were often elected from districts that were based on county lines. Sometimes, many more people would live in one district than another. In almost all of the states, people in rural areas got much greater representation from their senators. In other words, an urban county and a rural county would have the same number of senators. However, the rural county would have far fewer people. This meant it was easier for these people to get attention from their senators, and get their senators to do what they wanted.
However, in the 1964 decision "Reynolds v. Sims", , the United States Supreme Court ruled that state senators had to cover districts that had about the same number of people in them. This is different than the United States Senate, where every state gets two United States Senators, no matter how many people live there.
The second house in the state legislatures is usually called the House of Representatives.
However, nine states use different names for this house:
Every state has a Governor, who is in charge of the state's executive branch of government. The people in that state elect the Governor.
In most states, the people also elect other important members of the executive branch. These people work for the Governor. For example, they may include:
In most state governments, "departments" are the most powerful part of the executive branch. The secretary of a department is usually a member of the Governor's cabinet (a group of people who give the Governor advice). The members of the cabinet also keep the Governor up to date on whatever is happening in all the different executive agencies.
Each department may include divisions, offices, and/or agencies. Every state government is allowed to organize its executive departments and agencies any way it wants. Because of this, each state government is organized in a different way.
The executive branch may also include many other organizations. These may include commissions, councils, offices, corporations, or many other things. A department or division might be in charge of these organizations, or they might be independent.
Arizona's government gives an example of how all these people, departments, commissions, and other options might be organized. Here is a very basic summary of Arizona's executive branch:
Each state has a few different kinds of state courts.
Trial courts are the first level of state courts. Here, people can file lawsuits. People charged with crimes are also tried here and found guilty or not guilty. There are also special kinds of trial courts, like:
In most states, appeals courts (also called "appellate courts") are the next level of state courts. If someone who went to a trial court thinks that court made the wrong decision, they can appeal to an appellate court. That court can decide to reverse the lower (less powerful) trial court's decision. The appeals courts can do this if the trial court made a legal mistake.
Finally, most states have a supreme court. This is the most powerful court in the state. If a person has already appealed to the appellate courts, and they still think the court's decision was wrong, they can appeal to the state supreme court. Once the state supreme court makes a decision, that decision becomes state law. The decision can only be changed or reversed by federal courts. That can only happen if the federal courts think the state supreme court made a decision that violated the Constitution.
Each state's constitution or legislature spells out what type of courts the state will have, how they will work, and how judges will be chosen. Like with state executive departments, state courts can be very different from state to state.

</doc>
<doc id="537201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537201" title="List of amendments to the United States Constitution">
List of amendments to the United States Constitution

This page is a list of the amendments to the United States Constitution. Since the Constitution went into effect on March 4, 1789, twenty-seven amendments have been added to the Constitution. This page gives just a short summary of each of these amendments. For more information about each amendment, click on the links in the box at the right of this page. The amendments are numbered in Roman numerals from I (One) to XXVII (Twenty-seven).
Usually, for an amendment to be approved and added to the Constitution, there are two steps: 
Once this happens, the amendment becomes part of the Constitution.
The first ten amendments to the Constitution were all approved together. As a group, they are called the Bill of Rights.
Between 1789 and December 2014, about 11,623 amendments were proposed in Congress. However, most of these suggested amendments "die" in the committees that suggest them. In total, in the past 227 years, Congress has sent only 33 amendments to the states for ratification just about one out of every 500 suggested amendments. Of these 33, the states have ratified 27. 
Out of the six unratified amendments, two failed when they were not ratified by a set deadline. The other four are still officially "pending"; they do not have enough votes to pass or fail, but they also do not have deadlines written into them.
Congress sent twelve amendments to the states for ratification on September 25, 1789. Ten of these were officially ratified on December 15, 1791: two years, two months, and 20 days after Congress proposed them. Here is a summary of what those amendments say.

</doc>
<doc id="537206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537206" title="Kirtankhola">
Kirtankhola

Kirtankhola () is a river that starts from Sayeshtabad in Barisal district and ends into the Gajalia near Gabkhan khal (canal). The total length of the river is about .

</doc>
<doc id="537220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537220" title="Separate but equal">
Separate but equal

Separate but equal was a legal doctrine that existed in the United States for 58 years. It was based on the United States Supreme Court decision "Plessy v. Ferguson". Here the Court ruled that racial segregation was not in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, as long as the racially separate facilities were equal. The Court also said segregation was not discrimination. Segregation in public accommodations, transportation and schools was legally justified by "Plessy" until it was overturned in 1954 by "Brown v. Board of Education". 
After the American Civil War, the Republican controlled Congress passed three amendments to the Constitution called the Reconstruction Amendments. The first was the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution which abolished slavery in the United States. The second was the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution which provided equal protection of the laws to all citizens. The third was the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution that gave voting rights to African American men.
After the passage of the reconstruction amendments, things began to get worse for black people in the South. Many whites would not accept the new changes. The economy in the south was stagnant and taxes were high. There was a good deal of corruption which was made worse by carpetbaggers from the north and southern supporters of reconstruction called scalawags. Out of fear and hatred, white supremacy groups such as the Ku Klux Klan were born. Through the use of violence including lynching, rape, murder and terrorism, they sought to control African Americans and keep them from using their new rights.
Congress enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1875. It guaranteed African Americans equal treatment in public accommodations, public transportation, and to prevent being excluded from jury duty. The bill was passed by the 43rd United States Congress and signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant on March 1, 1875. Several years later, the Supreme Court ruled in "Civil Rights Cases" (1883) that sections of the act were unconstitutional. The Court's reasoning was the Fourteenth Amendment prohibited discrimination by states not by individuals. As a result Congress could not protect against individual cases of discrimination.
Florida was the first to pass a law requiring railroads to provide “equal but separate accommodations for the white, and colored, races”. Soon, Texas, Mississippi and other states had the same or similar laws. In 1890, when Louisiana passed a similar law, blacks began resisting. In 1892 it was agreed Homer Plessy would challenge the laws in order to form a test case. Plessy "passed" for white and while riding on an East Louisiana train in the "white section" announced he was black and refused to move to the "colored" section. Plessy was arrested and 1896 his case reached the Supreme Court. The case was "Plessy v. Ferguson", Fergusson being the name of the Judge who first ruled against him in the New Orleans Criminal District Court. 
In 1896, the Supreme Court heard the case. Plessy's lawyers argued Louisiana's Separate Car Act violated the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments. The Court, in a 7-1 decision decided against Plessy and that the law was constitutional. Writing the majority opinion, Justice Henry Brown wrote:
The lone dissenter, Justice John Harlan, saw terrible consequences in the judicial opinion rendered by the court. He wrote:
Beginning in 1890, Southern Democrats began to pass state laws that took away the rights African Americans had gained. These racist laws became known as Jim Crow laws. "Plessy" caused Jim Crow laws to go unchallenged by the federal government for 58 years. They included laws that made it impossible for blacks to vote. Since they could not vote, blacks also could not be on juries. Other laws required racial segregation so blacks could not go to the same schools, restaurants or hospitals as whites. They could not use the same bathrooms or drink from the same drinking fountains. They could also not sit in front of whites on busses or trains. Many southern Christian ministers taught that whites were the chosen people and blacks were cursed by God. Lynchings were designed to instill fear in blacks and keep them in their place. Between 1882 and 1968, 3,440 black men and women were lynched. Others were burned at the stake, castrated, beaten or murdered. The Jim Crow era began to end after the Supreme Court’s unanimous Brown v. Board of Education decision overruled Plessy.

</doc>
<doc id="537223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537223" title="Berber calendar">
Berber calendar

The Berber calendar is a calendar used most often in the region of North Africa, to control seasonal agricultural works.

</doc>
<doc id="537224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537224" title="Address bus">
Address bus

An address bus is a computer bus architecture. It is used to transfer data between devices. The devices are identified by the hardware address of the physical memory (the physical address). The address is stored in the form of binary numbers to enable the data bus to access memory storage. 
A collection of wires connecting the CPU with main memory that is used to identify particular locations (addresses) in main memory. The width of the address bus (that is, the number of wires) determines how many unique memory locations can be addressed. Modern personal computers and Macintoshes have as many as 36 address lines. That lets them, which enables them theoretically to access 64 gigabytes of main memory. However, the actual amount of memory that can be accessed is usually much less than this theoretical limit due to chipset and motherboard limitations. 
An address bus is part of the system bus architecture, which was developed to decrease costs and enhance modular integration. However, most modern computers use a variety of individual buses for specific tasks. 
An individual computer contains a system bus, which connects the major components of a computer system and has three main elements, of which the address bus is one, along with the data bus and control bus.
An address bus is measured by the amount of memory a system can retrieve. A system with a 32-bit address bus can address 4 gigabytes of memory space. Newer computers using a 64-bit address bus with a supporting operating system can address 16 exbibytes of memory locations, which is virtually unlimited.

</doc>
<doc id="537237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537237" title="2015–16 La Liga - Results of second round">
2015–16 La Liga - Results of second round

This is the Results of the second round of 2015–16 La Liga.

</doc>
<doc id="537239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537239" title="Avolar">
Avolar

Avolar was a Mexican low-cost airline. Its headquarters and largest hub were in Tijuana. It started on September 7, 2005 with one Boeing 737-500 airplane. It was one of the first low-cost airlines in Mexico. By 2008, the airline had 10 Boeing 737 airplanes. It flew to 21 cities throughout Mexico. Avolar suspended flights for 3 days in August 2008 and for 1 day in October 2008. This was due to large debts. Avolar asked to fly to the United States on October 28, 2008. Avolar finally stopped flying on that same day - October 28, 2008. The airline has never flown again since then.

</doc>
<doc id="537243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537243" title="Drag king">
Drag king

Drag kings are female performance artists who dress in male clothes. They play male gender roles as part of an individual or group routine. Drag kings may be straight, lesbian or transgender. They often perform as macho male characters, like construction workers and rappers. 
In the late 1800s/early 1900s, several drag kings became British music hall stars. British pantomime has preserved the tradition of women in male roles. Starting in the mid 1990s, drag kings started to have the fame and attention for which drag queens are known. 
The term "drag king" was first used in print in 1972.
Drag kings are mostly a part of lesbian culture. They can be most often seen at lesbian festivals or bars. However, not all drag kings are lesbians.

</doc>
<doc id="537245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537245" title="Controlled Substances Act">
Controlled Substances Act

The Controlled Substances Act (CSA) is a United States federal law. It controls what drugs American people and companies can have, make, import, and use. It also controls what drugs doctors can prescribe.
"Controlled substances" include illegal drugs, chemicals that are used to make illegal drugs, and some medications. If a government has rules or laws about a certain drug, then that drug is called a controlled substance. 
The United States Congress passed the law as part of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970. President Richard Nixon signed the bill into law on October 27, 1970.
The Controlled Substances Act (CSA) sets laws about:
The CSA does not include alcohol or tobacco as "controlled substances."
The CSA divides controlled substances up into five groups, called Schedules. Drugs are put into these categories based mostly on:
Since the CSA was created in 1970, many new illegal drugs and medications have been developed. Because of this, the Act has been amended many times to add on new types of drugs.
For example, since 1970, the CSA has been amended:
There are five different Schedules of controlled substances, numbered IV (one through five in Roman numerals). The CSA describes the different Schedules based on three things:
This table gives a summary of the differences between the different Schedules.
The CSA says that no doctor in the United States can write a prescription for a Schedule I drug. Some states have passed laws allowing doctors to prescribe marijuana for diseases like cancer and AIDS. Even though those prescriptions are legal in those states, they are still illegal under the CSA.
Here are some examples of Schedule I drugs:
Schedule II drugs are the most-controlled type of drugs that a doctor can write a prescription for. Some drugs that are usually illegal are on Schedule II. They are on Schedule II instead of Schedule I because sometimes, they can be used for medical reasons. For example, Schedule II includes cocaine, because it can stop bleeding and kill pain in the mouth, throat, and nose. Schedule II also includes methamphetamine, because it is sometimes used to treat Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and severe obesity.
Other drugs on Schedule II include:
The CSA puts limits on prescriptions for Schedule II drugs. For example, prescriptions for these drugs cannot be refilled. The patient cannot get more of the medication at the pharmacy without getting a new prescription. Also, the doctor must write the prescription they cannot call or fax the prescription to the pharmacy. The pharmacy needs an original copy of the prescription.
Schedule III drugs are less controlled than Schedule II drugs. Doctors can send these prescriptions to a pharmacy by fax or phone. These prescriptions can be refilled five times in six months without the patient needing a new prescription.
Drugs in Schedule III include:
Schedule IV drugs have the same rules for prescriptions and refills that Schedule III drugs do. Examples of Schedule IV drugs include:
Schedule V drugs are the least strictly controlled of all the controlled substances. A doctor can call or fax the prescription to the pharmacy. There is no limit on the number of times a prescription can be refilled.
Examples of Schedule V drugs include:
The United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) is in charge of enforcing the CSA. The DEA is part of the United States Department of Justice.
Usually, only two government agencies can add or remove drugs from a Schedule. These agencies are the (DEA) and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, sometimes Congress passes special laws to add a drug to the CSA.
Anyone can ask the DEA to add a drug, remove a drug, or change a drug to a different Schedule in the CSA. Even a regular person can petition the DEA for a change. After it gets a petition, the DEA starts an investigation of the drug.
During these investigations, the DEA gathers a lot of information, talks to different government agencies, gets the FDA's opinion, and does research. Because all of this takes time, a federal law allows the Attorney General of the United States to put a drug on Schedule I for a year. The law only allows this when there is "an imminent hazard" (an immediate threat) "to the public safety." For example, in 2011, the Attorney General used this law to put synthetic cannabinoids on Schedule I.

</doc>
<doc id="537246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537246" title="Pop Goes the Weasel">
Pop Goes the Weasel

"Pop! Goes the Weasel" is an English nursery rhyme and singing game. 
There are many different versions of this song.
American versions include the following words:
There are many other American and English versions.

</doc>
<doc id="537247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537247" title="Nursery rhyme">
Nursery rhyme

A nursery rhyme is a traditional poem for young children. The term has been used since the 18th century or early 19th century. In North America, the term Mother Goose Rhymes, first used in the mid-18th century, is often used.
Examples of nursery rhymes are "Three Blind Mice", "Jack and Jill" and "Hey Diddle Diddle".

</doc>
<doc id="537256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537256" title="Chaker Khazaal">
Chaker Khazaal

Chaker Khazaal (born 28 September 1987) is a Palestinian-Canadian author and reporter. He was named Esquire Man of the Year in 2015, and has been ranked number 1 in the 100 Most Influential Arabs Under 40 by Arabian Business Magazine.
Chaker Khazaal was born in Beirut, Lebanon, as third generation Palestinian refugee. In 2005, he was awarded the Global Leader of Tomorrow Award by York University in Toronto, Canada.
In 2013, Chaker Khazaal published his first novel titled Confessions of a War Child. He then released the second installment, subtitled Lia, in 2014. The last part of the trilogy, subtitled Sahara, was published in 2015.
Chaker writes in the Huffington Post about various topics, mainly related to the Middle East and refugees.
He has spoken about refugees on mainstream media, and dedicated his Esquire Man of the Year Award to Aylan Kurdi, the Syrian child who was found dead on a beach in Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="537278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537278" title="Amicus curiae">
Amicus curiae

An amicus curiae (literally, friend of the court; plural, amici curiae) is someone who is not a party to a case and offers information that affects the case but who has not been asked by any of the parties to assist a court. This may take the form of legal opinion, testimony or learned treatise (the "amicus" brief). It is a way to introduce concerns that might be overlooked by the parties directly involved in the case. The decision on whether to admit the information lies at the discretion of the court. The phrase "amicus curiae" is legal Latin.
The "amicus curiae" practice was found in Roman law. It played an important part in both English common law and the American legal system. Later, it was introduced in international law, in particular, concerning human rights. Today, it is used by the European Court of Human Rights. It is also used in the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Special Tribunal for Lebanon.
The situation most often noted in the press is when an advocacy group files a brief in a case before an appellate court to which it is not a litigant. Appellate cases are normally limited to the factual record and arguments coming from the lower court case under appeal. Usually attorneys focus on the facts and arguments most favorable to their clients. Where a case may have broader implications, "amicus curiae" briefs are a way to introduce those concerns, so that the possibly broad legal effects of court decisions will not depend solely on the parties directly involved in the case.
In prominent cases, "amici curiae" are generally organizations with sizable legal budgets. In the United States, for example, non-profit legal advocacy organizations, such as the American Civil Liberties Union, the Landmark Legal Foundation, the Pacific Legal Foundation, and others, frequently submit such briefs to advocate for or against a particular legal change or interpretation. If a decision could affect an entire industry, companies other than the litigants may wish to have their concerns heard. In the United States, federal courts often hear cases involving the constitutionality of state laws. Hence states may file briefs as "amici curiae" when their laws are likely to be affected, as in the Supreme Court case "McDonald v. Chicago," when thirty-two states under the aegis of Texas (and California independently) filed such briefs.
"Amici curiae" who do not file briefs often present an academic perspective on the case. Newspaper editorials, blogs, and other opinion pieces arguably have the capability to influence Supreme Court decisions as "de facto amici curiae". They are not, however, technically considered "amicus curiae," as they do not submit materials to the Court, do not need to ask for leave, and have no guarantee that they will be read.
The Supreme Court of the United States has special rules for "amicus curiae" briefs sought to be filed in cases pending before it. Supreme Court Rule 37 states, in part, such a brief should cover "relevant matter" not dealt with by the parties which "may be of considerable help". The cover of an "amicus" brief must identify which party the brief is supporting, or if the brief supports only affirmance or reversal. The Court also requires that, "inter alia", all non-governmental amici identify those providing a monetary contribution to the preparation or submission of the brief. Briefs must be prepared in booklet format, and 40 copies must be served with the Court.
In the United States Supreme Court, unless the "amicus" brief is being filed by the federal government (or one of its officers or agents) or a U.S. state, permission of the court (by means of motion for leave) or mutual consent of the parties is generally required. Allowing an "amicus curiae" to present oral argument is considered "extraordinary".
The role of "amicus curiae" briefs in the World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute settlement system is controversial. The controversy arises due to the governmental nature of WTO disputes. As only WTO members have access to the system, any non-members such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are excluded and have no right to be heard. Thus the only way for them to contribute to a WTO decision is through "amicus curiae" briefs. 

</doc>
<doc id="537281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537281" title="Henderson v. United States (1950)">
Henderson v. United States (1950)

Henderson v. United States, 339 U.S. 816 (1950) , was a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court that abolished segregation in railroad dining cars.
In the early part of the 20th century, railroads did not provide dining facilities for African-Americans. But public pressure in the 1930s and 1940s forced railroads to provide some kind of dining arrangement for black passengers. In response, they set up one or two tables for African-Americans. No matter how many needed to eat, there were only a few chairs available to them.
On May 17, 1942, Elmer W. Henderson, an African-American passenger, was travelling first-class on the Southern Railway from Washington, D.C. to Atlanta, Georgia. He was a lawyer traveling as part of his duties for President Roosevelt's Fair Employment Practice Committee. 
At about 5:30 pm, while the train was in Virginia, the first call to dinner was announced and he went promptly to the dining car. Under practices then in effect, the two end tables nearest the kitchen were to be reserved initially for Negroes. As the tables were partly occupied by white passengers (with at least one seat at them unoccupied) the dining-car steward would not seat Henderson in the dining car. Instead, the steward offered to serve him at his pullman seat. Henderson said no and the steward agreed to send him word when space was available. No word was sent and he was not served, although he twice returned to the diner before it was closed at 9 pm.
Henderson filed a complaint with the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) in October 1942. He alleged this conduct violated provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. While the Commission agreed that he had suffered undue and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage, it dismissed the occurrence as a casual incident brought about by the bad judgment of an employee. 
A three-judge United States District Court for the District of Maryland found the practice was in violation of the Interstate Commerce Act but remanded the case on February 18, 1946 back to the ICC. On March 1, 1946, the company announced a change in their rules for dining cars. Ten tables would be exclusively for white passengers and one table of four seats would be exclusively for black passengers with a curtain drawn between this and the other tables. White passengers could no longer be seated at the black table. This satisfied the ICC and the federal court. However, Henderson was not satisfied and, with the backing of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) appealed the decision to the Supreme Court.
The US Supreme Court did not rule on the constitutionality of "separate but equal" in this instance, but did find that the railroad had failed to provide the passenger with the same level of service provided to a white passenger with the same class of ticket. The Court found this violated the Interstate Commerce Act, which made it illegal for a railroad in interstate commerce “to subject any particular person… to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever.”
With the permission of the Court, Sam Hobbs, a member of the United States House Committee on the Judiciary filed a brief as "amicus curiae" in support of the lower court decision. Several other amicus curiae briefs were filed in support of Henderson, the appellant.

</doc>
<doc id="537286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537286" title="Plaque (biology)">
Plaque (biology)

A plaque in biology is a flat growth-form. The term is used for 

</doc>
<doc id="537293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537293" title="New York International Auto Show">
New York International Auto Show

The New York International Auto Show is an annual auto show that is held in Manhattan in late March or early April. It is held at the Jacob Javits Convention Center. It usually opens on or just before Easter weekend and closes on the first Sunday after Easter. In 2016 the show started on March 25 and ended April 3.
The show has been held annually since 1900.
The show was held at the New York Coliseum from 1956 to 1987 when the show moved to the Javits Center.

</doc>
<doc id="537297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537297" title="Santali language">
Santali language

Santali is the official language of the SANTAL community. Most Santal people live in Jharkhand, Odisha, or West Bengal.

</doc>
<doc id="537301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537301" title="Chiang Mai Province">
Chiang Mai Province

Chiang Mai (Thai เชียงใหม่) is the second-largest province ("changwat") of Thailand. It is in the country's north. It is bordered by Chiang Rai to the northeast, Lampang and Lamphun to the south, Tak to the southwest, Mae Hong Son to the west, and Shan State of Burma to the north. The capital, Chiang Mai, is 685 km north of Bangkok.
Chiang Mai Province is about from Bangkok. The highest mountain in Thailand, Doi Inthanon at , is in Chiang Mai Province.
Several other national parks are also in the province: Doi Suthep-Pui, Ob Luang, Sri Lanna, Huai Nam Dang, Mae Wang, and Pha Daeng.
The city of Chiang Mai was capital of the Lanna Kingdom after its founding in 1296.
In 1599, the kingdom lost its independence and became part of the Ayutthaya Kingdom. 
In 1932, the province Chiang Mai moved up to the second level subdivision of Thailand when the administrative unit of "Monthon Phayap", the remains of the Lanna Kingdom, was dissolved.
13.4% of the population in the province are members of hill tribes, among them the Hmong, Yao, Lahu, Lisu, Akha, and Karen.
Chiang Mai has a tropical wet and dry climate (Köppen "Aw"), tempered by the low latitude and moderate elevation, with warm to hot weather year-round, though nighttime conditions during the dry season can be cool and are much lower than daytime highs. The maximum temperature ever recorded is 42.4 °C in May 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="537303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537303" title="New Brunswick (disambiguation)">
New Brunswick (disambiguation)

New Brunswick may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="537304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537304" title="East Brunswick, New Jersey">
East Brunswick, New Jersey

East Brunswick is a township in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States. The suburban community is part of the New York City metropolitan area and is located on the southern shore of the Raritan River. It is adjacent to the city of New Brunswick.
The general area of central New Jersey was once occupied by the Lenape Native Americans.

</doc>
<doc id="537308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537308" title="Maria Teresa Felicitas d'Este">
Maria Teresa Felicitas d'Este

Maria Teresa Felicitas d'Este (October 6, 1726 – April 30, 1754) was born a princess of Modena and was by marriage the Duchess of Penthièvre. She was the mother-in-law of Philippe Égalité and a grandmother to the future Louis Philippe I.
One of nine children, she was the first daughter of the family but her mother eventually returned to France to live. In France she was eventually engaged to the hugely wealthy Duke of Penthièvre, who was a distant cousin of hers. In France she was known as "Marie Thérèse Félicité". 
in 1744 at the Palace of Versailles she was married to a second cousin, the French Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, Duke of Penthièvre. A very happy marriage the couple had seven children in total but only two of them survived childhood. 
Marie Thérèse Félicité died in childbirth in 1754 giving birth to a son who also died. Her husband refused to remarry and died in 1793. Her daughter Marie Adélaïde moved Marie Thérèse Félicité's body to the Royal Chapel, in Dreux. 

</doc>
<doc id="537339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537339" title="Gonzales v. Oregon">
Gonzales v. Oregon

Gonzales v. Oregon was a landmark case decided by the United States Supreme Court in 2006. In 2001, Attorney General John Ashcroft tried to stop Oregon's Death with Dignity Act. This law allowed terminally ill people to get a prescription for a medication that they could take to kill themselves. (This is called "physician-assisted suicide.") 
Ashcroft tried to stop doctors from prescribing medicines for physician-assisted suicide. He threatened to use a federal anti-drug law to punish them.
The state of Oregon went to court to fight Ashcroft. Eventually, the Supreme Court ruled that Ashcroft did not have the power to stop doctors from prescribing legal drugs in a way that was legal in Oregon. This decision allowed physician-assisted suicide to continue in Oregon.
In 1994, the people of Oregon voted to pass the Death with Dignity Act. Under this law, if a terminally ill adult wants to, they can get a lethal prescription from a doctor. They can only do this if they are a competent adult (they are able to make decisions on their own). They must also meet many other requirements.
By the end of 2001, when Ashcroft got involved, 150 people had gotten prescriptions under the Death with Dignity Act. Ninety-nine of these people used their prescriptions to end their lives. The other 51 (about one out of every three people) chose never to use their prescriptions.
In 2001, Attorney General Ashcroft tried to stop Oregon's doctors from prescribing medicines for physician-assisted suicide by using the Controlled Substances Act.
The Controlled Substances Act is a federal law sets the United States' rules about legal and illegal drugs. It includes rules about what medicines doctors can and cannot prescribe. It also includes a list of medicines, called "controlled substances," which doctors cannot prescribe without a special license from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). 
DEA rules limit when doctors with this license can prescribe controlled substances:
This means that doctors can only prescribe controlled substances if their patients need them for real medical problems. Basically, the doctor has to be acting like a doctor, not a drug dealer. 
The goal of this rule was to stop doctors who prescribed drugs to people who abused them. If doctors did this, they would be violating the Controlled Substances Act. The punishment for doctors who do this is is to lose their DEA license to prescribe controlled substances.
In 1994, when Oregon first passed the Death with Dignity Act, Janet Reno was the Attorney General. She decided the Death with Dignity Act did not violate the Controlled Substances Act. 
However, in November 2001, Attorney General Ashcroft put out a new rule (which became known as "The Ashcroft Directive"). He reversed Reno's position. He said the Death with Dignity Act "did" violate the Controlled Substances Act. 
Ashcroft had decided physician-assisted suicide was not a "legitimate medical purpose" for any medication. Because of this, he said, any doctor in Oregon who wrote another prescription for physician-assisted suicide would be breaking the Controlled Substances Act. As punishment, the DEA could take away these doctors' licenses to prescribe controlled substances. This would make it impossible for those doctors to prescribe medicines for physician-assisted suicide. The DEA could also fine the doctors or even charge them with crimes.
The day after Ashcroft issued his Directive, the state of Oregon went to federal court to fight it. Doctors, other health care providers, and people with terminal illnesses joined Oregon's lawsuit against Ashcroft. On April 17, 2002, U.S. District Judge Robert Jones ordered an injunction a judge's order saying that Ashcroft's rule could not be enforced. However, the court did not have the jurisdiction to hear the whole lawsuit. It moved the case to a higher (more powerful) court: the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The Ninth Circuit agreed with Judge Jones's injunction. They ruled that Congress obviously did not mean for the Controlled Substances Act to be used to control physician-assisted suicide. They meant for it to control illegal drug dealing. They also ruled that Ashcroft did not have the power to control a state's medical practices. That was the state's own business to control, the Court said.
Ashcroft asked the Supreme Court to hear the case. By the time they did, there was a new Attorney General: Alberto Gonzales. However, Gonzales supported the Ashcroft Directive, and continued Ashcroft's fight against the Death with Dignity Act.
On January 17, 2006, the Supreme Court decided in favor of Oregon. 
The Supreme Court did not rule on whether physician-assisted suicide, or the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, were legal. Instead, they made their decision based on the ideas of federalism the separation between the powers of the United States government and the individual states.
Like the Ninth Circuit, the Supreme Court ruled that the Controlled Substances Act was meant to fight drug use and drug dealing. Congress never meant for the law to deal with physician-assisted suicide.
The Court said that Congress "also" never meant for the Controlled Substance Act to control medical practices. The states had always had the right to control their own medical practices. Ashcroft decided that he could create a meaning of "legitimate medical practice" that every state would have to follow. The Court ruled that the Attorney General did not have this power to take away the states' rights to decide this for themselves. Also, since he was not a medical expert, he should not be deciding what "legitimate medical practice" was.
Finally, the Court ruled that under the Controlled Substances Act, the Attorney General had a very small role. He did not have the power to cancel a state law. He also did not have the right to punish doctors like criminals for acting in ways that were legal in Oregon. The Attorney General did not have the power to take these rights from Oregon.
Their ruling in "Gonzales" showed the states that the Supreme Court would not stop them from making physician-assisted suicide legal. As of 2016, four more states have made physician-assisted suicide legal: Washington, Montana, Vermont, and California. Now physician-assisted suicide is legal in five states 10% of the states in the country. If the Supreme Court had made a different ruling in "Gonzales", this never would have been possible.
A different ruling in "Gonzales" would have also given the Attorney General much more power over the states and their doctors. It would have taken away the states' rights in some important areas. Instead, it ruled in favor of states' rights and the separation of powers between the states and the federal government.

</doc>
<doc id="537341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537341" title="Category:Crimes against humanity">
Category:Crimes against humanity


</doc>
<doc id="537349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537349" title="László Sárosi (footballer)">
László Sárosi (footballer)

László Sárosi (27 February 1932 – 2 April 2016) was a Hungarian footballer and coach. He played as a defender for Vasas and Hungary between the 1940s and 1960s. He was born in Budapest.
Sárosi died on 2 April 2016 in Budapest, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="537351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537351" title="Gallieno Ferri">
Gallieno Ferri

Gallieno Ferri (21 March 1929 – 2 April 2016) was an Italian comic book artist and illustrator. In 1960, he met writer Sergio Bonelli. His partnership with Bonelli lead to the creation of the comic books "Zagor" and "Mister No". He was born in Genoa.
Ferri died on 2 April 2016 in Genoa, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="537354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537354" title="Category:1950 in the United States">
Category:1950 in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="537363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537363" title="Colobus">
Colobus

Colobus are a genus of monkeys native to Africa. The word "colobus" comes from Greek κολοβός which means "docked". This refers to their thumbs, which are just stumps. 
Colobus are herbivorous. They eat leaves, fruit, flowers, and twigs. Their habitats include primary and secondary forests, riverine forests, and wooded grasslands. Their ruminant-like digestive systems help them occupy niches which other primates do not live in.
Colobus live in territorial groups of about nine individuals, with a single male with a number of females and their offspring. Newborn colobus are completely white. Mothering is shared: other members of the troop the biological mother care for an infant.
Colobus are eaten regularly by the common chimpanzee. Jane Goodall discovered that chimps hunt and eat smaller primates such as "Colobus" monkeys. She watched a hunting group isolate a colobus high in a tree, block all possible exits, then a chimpanzee climbed up and captured and killed the colobus. The others then each took parts of the carcass, sharing with other members of the troop in response to begging behaviours. The chimps at Gombe kill and eat as much as "one-third of the colobus population" in the park each year. This was a major scientific find which challenged previous conceptions of chimp diet and behavior.

</doc>
<doc id="537370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537370" title="Category:People from Friuli Venezia-Giulia">
Category:People from Friuli Venezia-Giulia


</doc>
<doc id="537371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537371" title="Category:Sportspeople from Friuli Venezia-Giulia">
Category:Sportspeople from Friuli Venezia-Giulia


</doc>
<doc id="537376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537376" title="Cave nebula">
Cave nebula

The Cave nebula is an emission nebula in the constellation of Cepheus. It is about 2,400 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537379" title="NGC 7538">
NGC 7538

NGC 7538 is a diffuse nebula in the constellation of Cepheus. It is about 9,100 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537381" title="NGC 6946">
NGC 6946

NGC 6946, also known as the Fireworks galaxy, Arp 29, and Caldwell 12, is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Cepheus and Cygnus. It is about 22.5 million light-years away from Earth. It was discovered by William Herschel in September 9, 1798. It's highly obscured by interestellar matter, and it's very close to the galactic plane. It has a third of the Milky Way as size
Fireworks Galaxy has this name because of the supernovae happened in the galaxy. The supernovaes in this galaxy are very frequently. In the last century a total of 9 supernovaes were seen from our galaxy: SN 1917a, SN 1939c, SN 1948b, SNSN 1968d, SN 1969p, SN 1980k, SN 2002hh, SN 2004et, SN2008s.

</doc>
<doc id="537382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537382" title="Convict lease">
Convict lease

Convict leasing was a form of forced labor that prisons in the Southern United States. ("Convict" is a rude word for "prisoner"; leasing is like renting something.) Under the system, prisons leased prisoners out as free workers to corporations, business owners, and plantation owners. Basically, the prisons were selling prisoners like slaves, except that they were not sold forever.
This system made a lot of money for prisons and the contractors. The contractors got workers who they did not have to pay, and who they could treat however they wanted. The prisons got payments from the contractors. Also, they no longer had to pay for food, clothing, or housing for the prisoners who they leased out; the contractors did. 
In 1898, for example, about 73% of Alabama's entire yearly state revenue came from convict leasing. For this reason, convict leasing lasted almost 100 years in the South.
The state of Louisiana leased out convicts as early as 1844. However, convict leasing began to spread throughout the South during the Reconstruction Era (1865–1877). This was just after the end of the American Civil War, which ended slavery. With no more slaves to work for them, Southern farmers and businessmen needed to find new workers. Southern legislatures passed laws called Black Codes to keep blacks from moving freely and to force them to work for whites. As historian Douglas Blackmon explains:
At this time, the Southern states did not have much money, and they found that convict labor gave them a big source of revenue. Contractors also made money off the system because they did not have to pay the prisoners the wages they would have to pay to white workers. The Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution had made slavery illegal except as punishment for a crime. So the states passed laws that would make it easy to convict innocent black people of crimes. Once they were prisoners, they could be treated like slaves. The states basically used this process as a way to continue slavery in the South.
Northern states sometimes contracted for prison labor. However, in the South, the state gave complete control of prisoners to contractors.
Also, according to historian Matthew Mancini, the Southern convict labor system was "one of the harshest and most exploitative labor systems known in American history." 'If one [prisoner] dies, get another' was the attitude of many contractors, Mancini writes. He says this was caused by corruption, racism, racial violence, and the fact that contractors could do whatever they wanted without getting into trouble.
Prisoners were often treated very badly. Unlike during slavery, the contractors had not paid very much for the prisoners, and they would not have them forever. For these reasons, contractors had very little Prisoners could be beaten or whipped if their bosses did not think they were working hard enough. They were abused by guards. One source says: "Mines and plantations that used convict laborers commonly had secret graveyards containing the bodies of prisoners who had been beaten and/or tortured to death. Convicts would be made to fight each other, sometimes to the death, for the amusement of the guards and wardens."
Almost all of the prisoners who were leased out were African Americans, mostly adult males. This was because laws were enforced much more against black people, and blacks usually got much more severe sentences for "crimes" because of racism.
U.S. Steel is one of the American companies which have admitted using African-American leased convict labor. 
Convict leasing was most common around 1880. It was formally outlawed by the last state (Alabama) in 1928. However, it continued in different forms until President Franklin D. Roosevelt made it illegal on December 12, 1941.
Here are some examples of different states' convict leasing systems. 
Once they stopped using the convict labor system, many states switched to the trusty system. This was also a way to save money, but it caused abuses just like the convict labor system did. Finally, in a landmark case called "Gates v. Collier", 501 F.2d 1291 (5th Cir. 1974), a federal court forced the states using the trusty system to stop.
Scholar Randall Shelden argues that the convict lease system created an incentive to convict black people. Because the convict lease system brought in so much money, the states and counties had a reason to want to convict African-Americans. This is why the people in Southern prisons became mostly African-American after the Civil War, Sheldon writes. For example, in Louisiana's main prison in Nashville:
During the times when Southern states used the convict leasing system, their prison populations grew across the South. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="537383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537383" title="NGC 7090">
NGC 7090

NGC 7090 is a spiral galaxy in the Indus constellation. It is about 30 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537384" title="NGC 7049">
NGC 7049

NGC 7049 is an elliptical galaxy in the Indus constellation. It is about 101 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537388" title="Tadpole galaxy">
Tadpole galaxy

The Tadpole galaxy is a barred spiral galaxy in the Draco constellation. It is about 420 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537389" title="NGC 5907">
NGC 5907

NGC 5907 is a spiral galaxy in the Draco constellation. It is about 50 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537390" title="NGC 6503">
NGC 6503

NGC 6503 is a dwarf spiral galaxy in the Draco constellation. It is about 17 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537393" title="NGC 6543">
NGC 6543

NGC 6543 is a planetary nebula in the Draco constellation. It is about 3.3 thousand light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537394" title="Pelican nebula">
Pelican nebula

The Pelican nebula (also known as IC 5067 or IC 5070) is an H II region in the Cygnus constellation. It is about 1,800 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537396" title="North America nebula">
North America nebula

The North America nebula (also known as NGC 7000 or Caldwell 20) is an emission nebula in the Cygnus constellation. It is about 1,600 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537401" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/User:AdrianHernandez1/Draft:NBL VIP">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/User:AdrianHernandez1/Draft:NBL VIP


</doc>
<doc id="537403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537403" title="Sneaker Pimps">
Sneaker Pimps

The Sneaker Pimps are a British trip hop group. They formed in Hartlepool, England in 1994. They are best known for their songs "6 Underground" and "Spin Spin Sugar".
Their song, "6 Underground", went to #7 on "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart.
The band's founding members were Liam Howe and Chris Corner. They then hired Kelli Dayton as a singer, and longtime friend Ian Pickering to write lyrics. Dayton was the original singer of the Sneaker Pimps.
After the first album, the band felt that demos for the 1999 album "Splinter" was better for the voice of Corner. Following the tour for their first album, "Becoming X", they kicked Dayton out of the group. Dayton later had a solo career with the name "Kelli Ali". 
The Sneaker Pimps broke up in 2005. They got back together in 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="537405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537405" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/User:Kmakehitz">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/User:Kmakehitz


</doc>
<doc id="537411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537411" title="Louis Alexandre, Prince of Lamballe">
Louis Alexandre, Prince of Lamballe

Louis Alexandre de Bourbon (Louis Alexandre Joseph Stanislas; 6 September 1747 – 6 May 1768) was the son and heir of Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, grandson of Louis XIV by the king's legitimised son, Louis Alexandre de Bourbon, Count of Toulouse. He was known as the "Prince of Lamballe" from birth. He died before his father, and did not have children. 
"Louis Alexandre" was born on 6 September 1747, at the "Hôtel de Toulouse" in Paris. The prince de Lamballe, as he was known all his life, was the couple's only surviving son. He was one of seven children.
His father chose his bride, the Italian born Princess "Maria Luisa" Teresa of Savoy "Mademoiselle de Carignan". The wedding celebration lasted from 17 January 1767, until 27 January with feasts in Turin and Nangis. Prior to the wedding, His father had arranged the marriage to try and get his son to settle down as he was a well known womaniser. However after three months of happiness, Louis Alexandre soon tired of his young wife and resumed his life of "débaucherie". He eloped with "Mademoiselle de La Chassaigne", an opera dancer, five months into his marriage. At one point, Louis Alexandre even sold his wife's diamonds to raise money to pay his debts.
After a dissipated short life, Louis Alexandre died on 6 May 1768, sixteen months after his marriage, of a venereal disease at the Château de Louveciennes in the arms of his wife. He died without any children. His wife inherited part of his considerable fortune. He was eventually buried at the Royal Chapel, Dreux, France by his younger sister Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon. 

</doc>
<doc id="537424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537424" title="Iran men's national volleyball team">
Iran men's national volleyball team

The Iran men's national volleyball team is the national men's volleyball team of Iran. It is governed by the Islamic Republic of Iran Volleyball Federation (I.R.I.V.F.). It takes part in international volleyball competitions.
They are currently the strongest team in Asia. They won the 2011 and 2013 Asian Volleyball Championships. They rank 10th in the FIVB World Rankings (as of September 2014). The team's home venues are Azadi Indoor Stadium and Azadi Volleyball Hall.

</doc>
<doc id="537426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537426" title="Emil Keres">
Emil Keres

Emil Keres (9 July 1925 – 1 April 2016) was a Hungarian actor and theatre director. He started his career in 1950. He starred in over 100 stage productions. He also appeared in over ten movies, including "Twenty Hours" (1965). He was awarded the Kossuth Prize in 1965. He was born in Szombathely.
Keres died on 1 April 2016 at the age of 90.

</doc>
<doc id="537435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537435" title="IC 2118">
IC 2118

IC 2118, also known as the Witch head nebula, is a reflection nebula in the constellation of Eridanus. It is about 900 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537437" title="NGC 1300">
NGC 1300

NGC 1300 is a barred spiral galaxy in the constellation of Eridanus. It is about 61 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537438" title="Category:Barred spiral galaxies">
Category:Barred spiral galaxies


</doc>
<doc id="537439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537439" title="NGC 6302">
NGC 6302

NGC 6302, also known as the Bug nebula or the Butterfly nebula, is a planetary nebula in the constellation of Scorpius. It is about 3.4 thousand light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537440" title="Messier 7">
Messier 7

Messier 7, also known as NGC 6475 or the Ptolemy cluster, is an open star cluster in the constellation of Scorpius. It is about 980 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537443" title="Lagoon Nebula">
Lagoon Nebula

The Lagoon nebula, also known as Messier 8 and NGC 6523, is an emission nebula, H II region and interstellar cloud in the constellation of Sagittarius. It is about 4,100 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537445" title="NGC 1672">
NGC 1672

NGC 1672 is a barred spiral galaxy in the Dorado constellation. It is about 60 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537447" title="Owl nebula">
Owl nebula

The Owl nebula is a planetary nebula in the constellation of Ursa Major. It is about 2,300 light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537448" title="NGC 4102">
NGC 4102

NGC 4102 is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Ursa Major. It is about 69 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537449" title="NGC 4605">
NGC 4605

NGC 4605 is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Ursa Major. It is about 15 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537450" title="Messier 74">
Messier 74

Messier 74, also known as NGC 628, is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Pisces. It is about 32 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537451" title="NGC 488">
NGC 488

NGC 488 is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Pisces. It is about 90 million light years away from Earth. Its diametre isn't more than 171000 light years. This galaxy is considered a prototype galaxy with multiple arms. It has a group, the NGC 488 Group and it's the unique galaxy of the group that it's insolated.
It was discovered by William Herschel on 13 December 1784. In NGC 488 appeared 2 supernovae.

</doc>
<doc id="537452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537452" title="NGC 520">
NGC 520

NGC 520 is a pair of colliding spiral galaxy in the constellation of Pisces. It is about 90 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537458" title="NGC 3521">
NGC 3521

NGC 3521 is a spiral galaxy in the constellation of Leo. It is about 26 million light-years away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="537465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537465" title="Category:Hartlepool">
Category:Hartlepool


</doc>
<doc id="537466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537466" title="Category:1900s establishments in the United Kingdom">
Category:1900s establishments in the United Kingdom


</doc>
<doc id="537473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537473" title="Oregon Ballot Measure 16 (1994)">
Oregon Ballot Measure 16 (1994)

In 1994, the people of Oregon voted to approve Oregon Ballot Measure 16. This measure created the Oregon Death with Dignity Act (ORS 127.800-995). The Death with Dignity Act made physician-assisted suicide legal in some cases. This means that if a competent adult with a terminal illness wanted to, they could get a prescription from a doctor. They could then use that prescription to kill themselves.
The Death with Dignity Act made Oregon the first state in the United States to made physician-assisted suicide legal. The law survived many legal challenges. The Attorney General of the United States even tried to stop the law. However, in 2006, in a case called "Gonzales v. Oregon", the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that Oregon could continue to use the Death with Dignity Act. Over the next ten years, four more states made physician-assisted suicide legal for terminally ill people.
Some states, like Oregon, allow citizens to vote on whether a law should be created. This is called a ballot measure. In 1994, Ballot Measure 16 was added to the voting ballot (the voting ticket) in the state of Oregon. The ballot measure asked if Oregon should pass a law that "Allows Terminally Ill Adults to Obtain Prescription for Lethal Drugs." The vote was close, but most voters said "yes":
Since the voters had approved the ballot measure, the Oregon Death with Dignity Act (DWDA) was created. However, the law did not go into effect until 1997. This was because a judge ordered an injunction a judge's order blocking the law from being used. Eventually, on October 27, 1997, the injunction was removed. 
In November 1997, the Oregon state legislature put another ballot measure on the voting ticket. They did this after the Supreme Court decided "Washington v. Glucksberg". In that case, the Supreme Court ruled in support of laws against physician-assisted suicide. This new ballot measure asked the voters if the Death with Dignity Act should be repealed. 60% of the voters said "no"; they wanted the Death with Dignity Act to stay:
The Oregon Death with Dignity Act (DWDA) allows a terminally ill person to get a prescription from a doctor that they can use to end their life. (The DWDA specifically says that people who use the DWDA are not committing suicide.) However, there are many requirements. For example:
In 2001, Attorney General John Ashcroft decided to try to stop the DWDA. He threatened to use a federal anti-drug law to punish doctors who wrote prescriptions under the DWDA. He threatened to take away their prescription licenses and even charge them as criminals. The state of Oregon, joined by a doctor, a pharmacist, and terminally ill patients, sued to stop Ashcroft. The case went all the way to the Supreme Court. The Court ruled in favor of Oregon. The Death with Dignity Act could continue.
Between 1998 and the end of 2015, 1,545 people have gotten prescriptions through the Death with Dignity Act. Of these people, 991 have chosen to use the medicine to end their lives. The other 554 (36%, or almost 2 in every 5 patients) chose never to use their prescriptions.
Of the 991 people who died from taking DWDA medications:
Many of the 991 people who used their medications had the same worries about dying. The most common were:
The law says that a person has to wait at least 15 days between asking to use the DWDA and getting a prescription. However, some people waited up to 1009 days (over two and a half years} before using their prescriptions.
After the Supreme Court's decision in "Gonzales v. Oregon", other states realized they could also legalize assisted suicide without getting into trouble with the federal government. Since the Death with Dignity Act was decided in 2006, four other states have made physician-assisted suicide legal: Washington, Montana, Vermont, and California.

</doc>
<doc id="537492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537492" title="Nikolai Bayev">
Nikolai Bayev

Nikolai Bayev (, "Nikoghayos Gevorkovich Bayev"; October 6, 1875 – August 5, 1949) was an Armenian architect, who worked in Baku and in the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic.
Baev was born in Astrakhan in 1875. He was a relative and childhood friend of Mariinsky Theatre singer Nadezhda Papayan. He studied in local gymnasium and then attended the Saint Petersburg Institute of Civil Engineering, from which he graduated in 1901. From 1911 to 1918 he worked as the main architect of Baku. During this period he constructed more than 100 buildings in Baku, including the Great Theatre of the Mailov Brothers (modern days Azerbaijan State Opera Theatre, 1911), Sabunchi Railway Station, a residential sector in the former Armenikend area of Baku, and other buildings. 
In 1927 Bayev moved to Yerevan and from 1929 to 1930 worked as the head of "ArmSelStroy" (Armenian agency for rural construction), where he constructed about 200 buildings, among them Pioneer's Palace of Yerevan, State Bank of Armenian SSR, Ministry of Justice, Yerevan Mechanical factory, old hall of Sundukyan Theatre, "Ararat" trust buildings, etc. In 1945 he was awarded by the Honorary diploma of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Armenian SSR.
He was a member of Armenian Union of Architects (1942). Bayev's personal archive (1896-1949) is a part of Yerevan State Archive.

</doc>
<doc id="537501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537501" title="Category:BDSM-related media">
Category:BDSM-related media


</doc>
<doc id="537504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537504" title="Category:Works about sexuality">
Category:Works about sexuality


</doc>
<doc id="537535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537535" title="The Sundays">
The Sundays

The Sundays were an English alternative rock band. They formed in the late 1980s. They released three albums in the 1990s.
The band started when Harriet Wheeler and guitarist David Gavurin met.
The Sundays got a record deal with the Rough Trade Records. Their first single, "Can't be Sure", was released in 1989. Their first album, "Reading, Writing and Arithmetic", was released in 1990. The album got very positive reviews. It entered the UK chart at #4. Later in 1990, the album peaked at #39 in the United States. Its success came mostly from radio stations playing "Here's Where the Story Ends".
In late October 1992, the next album, "Blind", was released. This album was also successful when it peaked at #103 on the "Billboard" 200. "Blind" sold half a million copies. The reviews were positive. Some critics thought the album didn't have the quality songwriting of the first album.
In autumn 1997, after five years, their third record, "Static & Silence", was released. It got mixed reviews. "Summertime", the first song on the album, was their most successful song the UK Charts up to that time.
The Sundays took a break after the album "Static & Silence".

</doc>
<doc id="537541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537541" title="Category:Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016">
Category:Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537542" title="Mitigating factor (United States)">
Mitigating factor (United States)

When a person commits a capital crime, a mitigating factor is something that might help the person avoid getting the death penalty. ("To mitigate" means "to decrease." A "factor" is something that causes something else. So, in law, a mitigating factor is something that can cause punishment to decrease.)
Mitigating factors do not automatically result in decreased punishment. Judges and juries also think about aggravating factors things that are likely to cause a more severe punishment. 
Also, mitigating factors are not an excuse for committing a crime. They may help explain what caused a person to commit a crime, but they do not mean the person did nothing wrong. 
In the United States, mitigating factors are very important in death penalty cases. Mitigating factors can help prosecutors decide whether to ask for the death penalty. Also, the United States Supreme Court has ruled several times that judges and juries must think about mitigating factors before deciding on a sentence.
Since 1972, the Supreme Court has tried to make capital punishment in the United States fairer and more consistent. The Court has ruled that state laws cannot say a person "must" get the death penalty if they commit a certain crime, no matter what. To be fair, the Court ruled, each judge or jury has to think about whether an individual defendant deserves the death penalty. As Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun wrote in a 1994 case: 
As part of this process, the judge or jury has to think about mitigating factors that might make a less severe punishment fit better.
In "Lockett v. Ohio", , the Court ruled that state laws may not limit what mitigating factors judges and juries can consider. The Court added that mitigating factors should include:
In other words, as legal scholar Jeffrey Kirchmeier explains:
Each state has its own death penalty law. Each law gives a list of capital crimes in the state; aggravating factors that can make person more likely to get the death penalty; and specific mitigating factors. However, the mitigating factors listed in each state law are only examples of possible mitigating factors. Even if a state does not list a certain thing as a mitigating factor, a defendant can still bring up that factor in court.
The United States' federal courts can try people for federal crimes and can sentence them to death. Federal law includes a death penalty law, 18 U.S. Code § 3592. It says that when deciding whether or not to give a defendant the death penalty, the judge or jury must "consider any factor, including these:
While each state law is a little different, most of them list the same mitigating factors as the federal law. Examples of other mitigating factors in some of the states' laws include:
Oklahoma's sentencing law, Code Section OUJI-CR 4-78, just says that mitigating factors are: 

</doc>
<doc id="537543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537543" title="Category:BLPs needing more sources from April 2016">
Category:BLPs needing more sources from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537544" title="Category:Pages in need of copyedit from April 2016">
Category:Pages in need of copyedit from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537545" title="Category:Articles needing additional references from April 2016">
Category:Articles needing additional references from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537553" title="Alessandro Moreschi">
Alessandro Moreschi

Alessandro Moreschi (11 November 1858 – 21 April 1922) was a castrato singer of the late 19th century and the only castrato to make solo recordings.
All of Moreschi's recordings were made in Rome in two recording sessions for the Gramophone & Typewriter Company. The first series of recordings were made on 3 and 5 April 1902 by Will and Fred Gaisberg. Eighteen usable sides by the members of the Sistine Chapel Choir were made on wax. Four of them were solos by Moreschi. 
Many years later Fred Gaisburg remembered making these historic first recordings in the Vatican: "Selecting a great salon with walls covered with Titians, Raphaels, and Tintorettos, we mounted our grimy machine right in the middle of the floor." 
The second set of recordings was made in Rome in April 1904.
Alessandro was a member of the Sistine choir until Easter 1913. He then retired and got a pension after thirty years' service.
In retirement, Moreschi lived in his apartment, a few minutes' walk from the Vatican. He died there at sixty-three, possibly of pneumonia. His funeral mass was a large and public affair in the church of San Lorenzo in Damaso.

</doc>
<doc id="537558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537558" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:LQT Moved thread stub converted to Flow">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:LQT Moved thread stub converted to Flow


</doc>
<doc id="537559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537559" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:MediaWiki block log link">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:MediaWiki block log link


</doc>
<doc id="537561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537561" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Category:Username changing and usurpation templates">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Category:Username changing and usurpation templates


</doc>
<doc id="537563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537563" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Group request for various unused templates">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Group request for various unused templates


</doc>
<doc id="537565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537565" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Progressive Fighting System">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Progressive Fighting System


</doc>
<doc id="537575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537575" title="Category:Musical groups disestablished in 1997">
Category:Musical groups disestablished in 1997


</doc>
<doc id="537579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537579" title="Saga">
Saga

Sagas are stories mostly about ancient Nordic and Germanic life. Some are entirely invented, and some have an historical basis.
They tell about early Viking voyages, the battles that took place during the voyages, about migration to Iceland and of feuds between Icelandic families. They were written in the Old Norse language, mainly in Iceland.
The texts are tales in prose which share some similarities with the epic, often with stanzas or whole poems in alliterative verse embedded in the text, of heroic deeds of days long gone, "tales of worthy men," who were often Vikings, sometimes pagan, sometimes Christian. They are sometimes romanticised and fantastic, but always dealing with human beings one can understand.
The best sagas are recognised as fine literature. "Njál's Saga", or the "Saga of Burnt Njál", is one of the most famous.
In Old English (Anglo-Saxon), Beowulf is a saga written in England, and so is the later Gawain and the Green Knight, written in a West Midlands dialect. These are both works of the imagination, but Layamon's "Brut" (about 1200 AD) is based on English history since the "Anglo-Saxon Chronicle".

</doc>
<doc id="537609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537609" title="Institut aéronautique Jean Mermoz">
Institut aéronautique Jean Mermoz

The Institut aéronautique Jean Mermoz (IAJM) is a French airline pilot school created in 1957. It is in Rungis, Ile-de-France
The school is famous for its aviation books, published in French and also in English since 2016, thanks to a cooperation with the French Civil Aviation University.
The school is member of the International Association of Aviation Personnel Schools.

</doc>
<doc id="537610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537610" title="Rosendale Trestle">
Rosendale Trestle

The Rosendale Trestle is a bridge in Ulster County, New York. It was completed in 1872. It also was a railroad. It is 940 feet.

</doc>
<doc id="537616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537616" title="Least squares">
Least squares

Least squares is the name of a procedure in mathematics, to construct a function from a number of observed values. The basic idea is to construct the function in such a way that the sum of the difference between the observed value and its data point is minimized. Since the difference may go in either direction, the value of the difference is squared, for each value.
Carl Friedrich Gauss developed the method. He used ideas from Pierre-Simon Laplace. Adrien-Marie Legendre developed the same method independently, in 1805.
Ordinary least squares

</doc>
<doc id="537617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537617" title="Assistance of Counsel Clause">
Assistance of Counsel Clause

The Assistance of Counsel Clause is a part of the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution. It says: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right...to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defense." This means that anyone being accused of a crime has the right to have a lawyer help defend them. ("Counsel" is a legal word for "lawyer.")
Since the Constitution was written, many questions have come up about what exactly the Assistance of Counsel Clause means. The Supreme Court of the United States has made many decisions to answer these questions. The Court has decided that Americans have five different rights under the Assistance of Counsel Clause:
The Supreme Court case "Brewer v. Williams", , answered the question of when a person's right to a lawyer begins. In this decision, the Court said a person has the right to have a lawyer's help "at or after":
After any of these things happen, a person has the right to a lawyer whenever they are interrogated.
In the case "Escobedo v. Illinois", , the Court also decided that suspects have the right to a lawyer when they are being interrogated by the police, even if they have not been charged with a crime yet.
People who go in front of grand juries do not have the right to have a lawyer with them. This is because the Supreme Court does not think of grand juries as "criminal prosecutions." (A grand jury cannot find someone guilty of a crime or punish anyone; they can only decide that a person should be charged with a crime.)
Every defendant has the right to a lawyer without a conflict of interest. Here is an example of a conflict of interest: a lawyer is defending two different people. A client named Smith wants to blame his crime on another client named Jones. A lawyer is supposed to do what is best for their clients. Here, the lawyer cannot do that for both clients. If the lawyer blames Smith's crime on Jones in court, he is hurting Jones. If he does not blame the crime on Jones, he is refusing to defend Smith the way Smith wants. This is not fair to either client. Also, the lawyer cannot do the best possible job for both clients at the same time. 
To make sure they get a fair trial, every defendant has the right to a lawyer without a conflict of interest. It does not matter whether the defendant is paying the lawyer, or the lawyer was assigned for free. If a lawyer has a conflict of interest, and it hurts their defense of their client, an appeals court will automatically cancel the defendant's conviction. 
Defendants being charged with a crime have the right to be represented by the lawyer they want. However:
If a court violates a defendant's right to counsel of their choice, and the defendant appeals, the appeals court will automatically cancel the defendant's conviction.
Defendants have the right to have a lawyer assigned (appointed) to them for free, if:
The Supreme Court has ruled that Americans have the right to an effective lawyer. For example, if a defendant is charged with a crime, a court cannot appoint just any lawyer. The defendant must be given a lawyer who can try a criminal case, and can defend their client effectively.
The Supreme Court explained what "ineffective assistance of counsel" means in a case called "Strickland v. Washington" (1984). In this case, a defendant was convicted. He appealed, saying that his lawyer did not do a good enough job defending him. The Court ruled that he could only have a new trial if he proved:
If a defendant can prove these things to an appeals court, they have proved that their lawyer was ineffective (not effective). This means they have proved their Sixth Amendment rights were violated. They will then get a new trial with a different lawyer. 
In most cases, a defendant being charged with a crime has the right to defend himself.. This is called "pro se" representation. It means the defendant has given up their right to have a lawyer. The defendant has decided to act as their own lawyer.
However, a court can rule that the defendant will not be able to give himself a good enough defense. If that happens, the court can rule that the defendant has to have a lawyer. 
Americans do not have the right to defend themselves in appeals courts. In these courts, a defendant must have a lawyer.

</doc>
<doc id="537626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537626" title="Category:Articles lacking sources from April 2016">
Category:Articles lacking sources from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537628" title="Category:Transformers (franchise)">
Category:Transformers (franchise)


</doc>
<doc id="537638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537638" title="Rights of Englishmen">
Rights of Englishmen

The Rights of Englishmen is an assumed group of rights that had its roots in the basic rights granted in the Magna Carta. The idea reached its peak during the British settlement of North America. By this time colonial Englishmen felt they were entitled to certain additional rights and liberties. These were over and above those already granted them by the English Monarchy. One of these perceived rights was the idea of no taxation without representation. This was a grievance of British colonists who believed that they were not directly represented in the British Parliament. They believed that any laws it passed affecting the colonists (such as the Sugar Act and the Stamp Act) were illegal under the Bill of Rights 1689, and were a denial of their rights as Englishmen. This led to the American Revolution and is expressed in the Declaration of Independence as "certain unalienable rights". They stopped thinking of themselves as Englishman and became Americans.

</doc>
<doc id="537644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537644" title="Sodomy laws in the United States">
Sodomy laws in the United States

Sodomy laws in the United States were laws that made certain kinds of sexual activity illegal. In the past, there were federal laws against sodomy. Every state also had a a sodomy law, even in the 20th century. 
Starting in the 1960s, some states began to repeal (throw out) their sodomy laws. In 2003, in a case called "Lawrence v. Texas", the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that sodomy laws were unconstitutional. This means no sodomy law in the United States can be used to charge a person with a crime.
Most sodomy laws in the United States made both oral sex and anal sex illegal. However, state laws did not agree on "who" could not do these things.
Every state law made sodomy between homosexual couples illegal. Other state laws also made sodomy illegal between heterosexual couples, if they were not married. The strictest laws made sodomy illegal in every case, even between married couples.
Some sodomy laws also included bestiality in their definition of "sodomy."
The first sodomy laws in America were created when America was still a colony of the British Empire. In the Jamestown colony (the first permanent settlement in America), sodomy could be punished by execution.
Sodomy could be punished by execution in many of the other American colonies as well. In cases of rape or statutory rape, the victim was often punished also. Sometimes the victim was executed along with their rapist.
Historians are not sure exactly how many people were executed for sodomy in colonial America:
By the time the Bill of Rights was ratified in 1791, every state in the new United States had laws that treated sodomy as a crime.
Before 1963, every state in the United States had laws against sodomy. The states did change these laws so that sodomy was no longer a capital crime. However, punishments could be as severe as life in prison.
Ethics scholar Richard Weinmeyer writes:
According to the Mattachine Society, one of the oldest gay rights groups in the United States, these were the punishments for breaking sodomy laws in 1964:
In the 1960s, attitudes toward sex became much more liberal in the United States. As this happened, some states began to repeal their sodomy laws. Illinois was the first state to do this, in 1963. In the 1960s and 1970s, seventeen other states repealed their sodomy laws. Another seven states changed their laws to say that sodomy between heterosexual couples was not a crime. These seven states kept laws that made sodomy between homosexual couples a misdemeanor.
However, some states refused to change their laws. In 1986, the United States Supreme Court ruled that sodomy laws were constitutional, and that states could continue to use them.
By 2003, thirty-six of the fifty states had repealed their laws against sodomy. Ten states had laws left that made sodomy a crime. Four more had laws that made sodomy between same-sex couples a crime.
In 2003, the United States Supreme Court made a landmark decision in "Lawrence v. Texas". It ruled that Texas's sodomy law was unconstitutional. This ruling meant that no sodomy law in the United States was constitutional or could be used to charge a person with a crime. In other words, it made sexual activity between homosexuals legal in every state in America.
At this time, fourteen states still had sodomy laws that they had not repealed.
As of 2014, 17 states had not repealed their sodomy laws, even though they cannot be used any more because of "Lawrence v. Texas". Thirteen of these state laws make both heterosexual and homosexual sodomy illegal:
Three more of these state laws ban homosexual sodomy specifically: Kansas, Kentucky, and Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="537646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537646" title="Category:Pages needing to be simplified from April 2016">
Category:Pages needing to be simplified from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="537650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537650" title="Gulf War oil spill">
Gulf War oil spill

The Gulf War oil spill happened in January of 1991 during the Gulf War when Iraq troops were retreating from Kuwait. Shortly after Coalition forces (made up of 39 countries) started the air campaign against Iraq, Iraqi soldiers opened the valves at the Sea Island oil terminal. This released between five and ten million gallons of oil into the Persian Gulf—the largest oil spill in history. The spill was an environmental disaster. It destroyed the coastal habitats and marine wildlife in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.

</doc>
<doc id="537654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537654" title="Category:1990s in Asia">
Category:1990s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="537657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537657" title="Category:People from Bakersfield, California">
Category:People from Bakersfield, California


</doc>
<doc id="537658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537658" title="Category:Politicians from Los Angeles, California">
Category:Politicians from Los Angeles, California


</doc>
<doc id="537661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537661" title="Category:Liege (province)">
Category:Liege (province)


</doc>
<doc id="537682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537682" title="Hadizatou Mani">
Hadizatou Mani

Hadizatou Mani is a human rights activist from Niger. In 2009, Mani received an International Women of Courage Award. 
In 1996, Mani was sold as a slave for $500. She was 12 years old. 
In 2003, slavery became illegal in Niger. Mani’s master did not tell her. Later, he said Mani was his wife, not his slave. 
Mani received her "certificate of liberation" in 2005, and she got married. Her old master took her to court for bigamy. She got a prison sentence of six months. 
Mani took the case to court. She worked with Timidria, a local NGO, and Anti-Slavery International, a British NGO. he brought the case to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). In 2008, ECOWAS said that Niger did not protect her rights. They said Niger had to pay her a fine of 10 million CFA francs. 

</doc>
<doc id="537690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537690" title="CFA franc">
CFA franc

The West African CFA franc is the currency of eight countries in West Africa: Benin, Burkina Faso, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Sénégal and Togo. CFA means Communauté Financière d'Afrique ("Financial Community of Africa") or Communauté Financière Africaine ("African Financial Community"). 
The Central African CFA franc has the same value as the West African CFA franc. 

</doc>
<doc id="537693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537693" title="Reem Al Numery">
Reem Al Numery

Reem Al Numery is a children's rights activist in Yemen. In 2009 she received the International Women of Courage Award. 
When Al Numery was 12 years old, she had to marry her 30-year-old cousin. She protested the wedding, but her father gagged her and tied her up. After the wedding, she tried to kill herself twice. 
Al Numery's father would not let her have a divorce. A judge said she was too young to decide, and she could decide when she was 15 years old. Al Numery went to live with her mother. Her lawyer said she would appeal. Reem's father said he would kidnap her but Al Numery wanted to go to school. She got her divorce in 2010 

</doc>
<doc id="537694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537694" title="Veronika Marchenko">
Veronika Marchenko

Veronika Marchenko is a Russian activist. In 2009 she received the International Women of Courage Award. 
Marchenko started the “Mother’s Right” Foundation in 1990 to bring attention to the problem of hazing in the Soviet military. The organization helps families of soldiers who die in peacetime, and works against corruption. Many of the deaths are called suicides, so the families have trouble getting money after the death. 
In 2007, lawyers from Mother’s Right helped 132 families go to court for survivor's benefits. They also helped 5,323 families of men who died. 
The organization now helps 5000 people a year. They helped a total of 80,000 people. 
Mother's Right Foundation (English) 

</doc>
<doc id="537699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537699" title="Pancuronium bromide">
Pancuronium bromide

Pancuronium bromide is a type of medication called a muscle relaxant. Its brand name is Pavulon. It is used in medicine for many different things. It is also used in euthanasia. 
In the United States, pancuronium bromide is used in executions. It is one of three drugs that are given to prisoners being executed by lethal injection.
Normally, the brain sends chemical signals to the muscles to get them to work. Pancuronium bromide stops these signals from getting to the muscles. Without signals from the brain telling them to work, the muscles cannot move. Because of this, a person who is given enough pancuronium bromide will be completely paralyzed until the drug wears off. No muscle in their body will be able to move.
A dose of pancuronium bromide takes about 3-6 minutes to paralyze a person. The drug's effects last for about 100 minutes. A healthy adult usually needs 120 to 180 minutes to get most of their muscle movement back. There are antidotes to pancuronium bromide that will help reverse the drug's effects more quickly.
Pancuronium bromide paralyzes the breathing muscles along with all of the other muscles. This means that pancuronium bromide will stop a person from breathing. In hospitals, a person who is given pancuronium bromide is then intubated a tube is put down their throat to pump oxygen into their lungs. This gives the body the oxygen it needs until the medication wears off, the breathing muscles can work again, and they can breathe in oxygen on their own.
Because the brain is not a muscle, pancuronium bromide does not paralyze the brain. This means that pancuronium bromide is not a sedative (it will not put a person to sleep), and it does not kill pain. If a person is given "only" pancuronium bromide, their brain will keep working normally even while their body is paralyzed. They will be awake and aware of what is going on, but unable to move.
Doctors use pancuronium bromide during surgery. It keeps the patient's body from moving, and makes it easier to put a breathing tube down their throat. It is always given along with anesthesia so the patient is asleep and does not feel pain.
Pancuronium bromide's most common side effects are:
In Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands, euthanasia is legal. Doctors are allowed to give medicines to terminally ill people who want to end their lives. In these three countries, pancuronium bromide is one of the medicines that doctors often use for euthanasia. First they give a sedative so the person goes into a deep sleep. Then they give pancuronium bromide, which stops the person's breathing.
In the United States, people sentenced to death by lethal injection have usually been executed using three different medications. Pancuronium bromide is the second medication. First, a sedative called sodium thiopenthal puts the prisoner into a deep sleep. Second, pancuronium bromide is given to keep the prisoner from moving and to stop their breathing. Third, potassium chloride is given to stop the prisoner's heart.
The use of pancuronium bromide in lethal injections is controversial. Some doctors and scientists say that potassium chloride is "extremely painful." They say that if not enough of the sedative medicine was given, nobody would be able to tell if the prisoner was in pain, because they would be paralyzed.
However, other doctors say that if the three drugs are given correctly, lethal injection should not cause pain. Because doctors are supposed to "do no harm", many executions are now done by people who are not doctors. Supporters of lethal injection say that prisoners have pain when these people make mistakes, not because of the drugs themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="537705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537705" title="Gigi Hadid">
Gigi Hadid

Jelena Noura "Gigi" Hadid (born April 23, 1995) is an American fashion model. 
She was born and raised in Los Angeles. She is the elder daughter of Palestinian real-estate developer Mohamed Hadid and Dutch former model Yolanda Foster. Her sister is model Bella Hadid. 
She models for IMG models. She is a Maybelline brand ambassador. She has walked her designers including Chanel, Marc Jacobs, Micheal Kors, and Max Mara. She was in the VS Fashion show is 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="537710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537710" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Twincest">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Twincest


</doc>
<doc id="537742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537742" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Peer Van Mladen">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Peer Van Mladen


</doc>
<doc id="537760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537760" title="Foreign national">
Foreign national

A foreign national is a person who is visiting or living in a country where they are not a citizen.
The European Union has a different definition of "foreign national." In the European Union, a person is only thought of as a foreign national if they are not a citizen of any country in the European Union. These people are called "third party nationals," not "foreign nationals."
The United States Department of Homeland Security says that a foreign national as a person "who is a citizen of any country other than the United States."
In other words, a foreign national is a person who:

</doc>
<doc id="537770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537770" title="Aérocentre">
Aérocentre

Aérocentre is a French group of aerospace engineering companies and research centres. It is in the region of Centre-Val de Loire in the middle of France.
There are over 321 companies. About 20.000 people work there in the aviation and space flight industries.
The headquarters of Aérocentre is in Châteauroux. The chairman of the group is Jean-Michel Sanchez.

</doc>
<doc id="537772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537772" title="2014–15 La Liga">
2014–15 La Liga

The 2014–15 La Liga season (known as the "Liga BBVA" for sponsorship reasons) was the 84th season of the premier association football league in Spain. The campaign began on 23 August 2014 and ended on 24 May 2015.
Barcelona won its 23rd title on 17 May 2015 after defeating defending champions Atlético Madrid at the Vicente Calderón Stadium.
 

</doc>
<doc id="537781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537781" title="Constitutional convention (political meeting)">
Constitutional convention (political meeting)

A constitutional convention is a convention where an organization's constitution can be created, revised, or amended. A general constitutional convention is called to create the first constitution of a political unit or to entirely replace an existing constitution. An unlimited constitutional convention is called to revise an existing constitution. A limited constitutional convention is restricted to revising only a limited area of the current constitution. However, such conventions may decide to go beyond their original authority. For example, the United States Constitutional Convention of 1787 was supposed to be limited to amending the Articles of Confederation. Instead, they wrote an entirely new constitution.
The United States Constitution is silent regarding rules of how a constitutional convention would operate. There are no standards for states calling for a convention. Even calls for a constitutional convention made 50 to 100 years ago on an entirely different topic might be counted towards the required 34 states needed to call a constitutional convention. Oklahoma, for example, called for a convention in 1976 but then rescinded it in 2009. They were concerned that such a convention might make unforeseen changes in any area of the Constitution. Those in favor of a constitutional convention may want to count Oklahoma's call for a convention anyway.
Article Five of the United States Constitution provides "two" ways that constitutional amendments can be proposed:
Either way that amendments are proposed, they must then be ratified. Article Five gives two choices for how an amendment can be ratified. Congress chooses which way to use.
Congress has only used the second option once: after it proposed the 21 Amendment. (This amendment cancelled the 18 Amendment, which made alcohol illegal in the United States. The 21 Amendment made alcohol legal again.) At the time, Congress thought that this would be the more democratic option.
An organized body (when an organization already has a constitution, officers and by-laws) will usually have appointed a committee on credentials and a committee on program before the convention begins. The committee on credentials (also called registration) checks the identity of delegates and gives each one a name badge or card as evidence they belong there. A program committee should have copies of the program available to all delegates before the convention begins. Other committees may be appointed as necessary.

</doc>
<doc id="537785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537785" title="Convention (meeting)">
Convention (meeting)

A conventionis a meeting of individuals who meet at an arranged place and time to discuss or engage in some common interest. The most common conventions are based upon industry, profession, and fandom. Trade conventions are usually about an industry or industry segment. They often include keynote speakers, vendor displays, and other information and activities of interest to the event organizers and those who attend the convention. Professional conventions focus on issues of concern to the profession. Fan conventions usually feature displays, shows, and sales based on pop culture and guest celebrities. Science fiction conventions are similar to both professional conventions and fan conventions. Conventions also exist for various hobbies, such as gaming or model railroads.

</doc>
<doc id="537803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537803" title="Ella Mitchell">
Ella Mitchell

Ella Mitchell (born August 15, 1937) is an American actress and comedienne, best known for portraying Big Momma in "Big Momma's House".

</doc>
<doc id="537823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537823" title="HMS Birkenhead">
HMS Birkenhead

The HMS "Birkenhead" was a British troopship that sank on 25 February 1852 near Cape Town, South Africa. It was one of the first iron-hulled ships built for the Royal Navy. She was designed as a steam-powered frigate, but was converted to a troopship before being commissioned.
Many of the lifeboats could not be lowered because of poor maintenance and a thick layer of paint that kept the mechanisms from working. The soldiers famously stood aside and allowed the women and children to get into the working lifeboats safely. Only 193 of the 643 people on board survived. The chivalry shown by the soldiers gave rise to the "women and children first" protocol when abandoning ship. The "Birkenhead drill" is memorialized in Rudyard Kipling's poem "Soldier an' Sailor too":
The Birkenhead steamed out of Simon's Bay near Cape Town, South Africa on February 25, 1852 bound for Port Elizabeth, South Africa. The ship had been built by the famous Scottish John Laird family of Birkenhead, Merseyside, England. She was a 1400-ton ship that was just over 200 feet long. On board were 643 men, women and children as well as several officer's horses. Among the passengers were soldiers destined for the Queen's (second) Royal Regiment of Foot. They were commanded by Ensign Boylan, one corporal and 51 men.
The ship's captain, Robert Salmond, wanted to make the trip quickly so he hugged the South African coast staying about 3 miles (4.8 km) off the shore. That evening, everyone was resting in their hammocks below decks when the ship hit a hidden reef off a point now called "Point Danger". The impact ripped the ship open allowing the sea to pour in. The forward watertight compartment flooded immediately, drowning about 100 men in their hammocks. A second impact tore open the second of the two watertight compartments flooding it. The remaining officers and men assembled on the deck. Because the winches were not well maintained and clogged with paint, the two large lifeboats that could hold 150 people each could not be launched. The ship fired distress rockets but there were no other ships nearby. Two cutters and one gig (small boat) were launched. The order was given for the men to "stand fast" (remain where they were) allowing the women and children into the few boats available. The horses were freed so they could swim the approximately two miles (3.2 km) to shore. Twenty minutes after hitting the rock the ship broke up and sank. A few managed to swim to shore while most either drowned or were taken by sharks.
The schooner "Lioness" discovered one of the cutters the next morning and made it to the scene where they rescued as many people as they could. It was reported in The Times newspaper that there were 643 people on board the Birkenhead, but this was an estimate as the records were lost with the ship. The survivors included about 113 Army personnel of all ranks, 6 Royal Marines, 54 sailors, 7 women and 13 children. Eight horses made it to shore (a ninth broke its leg getting off the ship). The disaster was the start of the standard protocol of women and children first. The "Birkenhead Drill" became the best example of courage in the face of death.
A lighthouse was built at Danger Point in 1895 to warn ships of the dangerous reef. It is about 59 feet (18 metres) tall and can be seen for about 25 nautical miles out to sea. A memorial to the Birkenhead disaster is at the base and points to the rock where the ship sank.

</doc>
<doc id="537824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537824" title="Constitutional Convention">
Constitutional Convention

Constitutional convention may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="537827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537827" title="Category:21st century establishments in France">
Category:21st century establishments in France


</doc>
<doc id="537829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537829" title="Category:21st century establishments in Europe">
Category:21st century establishments in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537831" title="Category:21st century establishments by country">
Category:21st century establishments by country


</doc>
<doc id="537836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537836" title="Category:History of Portugal">
Category:History of Portugal


</doc>
<doc id="537838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537838" title="Category:Centuries in Europe">
Category:Centuries in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537839" title="Category:2005 in Europe">
Category:2005 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537840" title="Category:2007 in Europe">
Category:2007 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537842" title="Category:21st century in Spain">
Category:21st century in Spain


</doc>
<doc id="537843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537843" title="Petra Herrera">
Petra Herrera

Petra Herrera, also known as "Pedro Herrera", was a Mexican "soldadera". She fought as a revolutionary in the Mexican Revolution.
Petra Herrera changed herself into "Pedro" Herrera and joined the revolutionary troops of Pancho Villa. She changed her looks and became more masculine. She invented tricks like saying she shaved at dawn before the other soldiers were awake. She was known for her courage, and for her specialty of blowing up bridges.
As "Pedro" Herrera, she was well-liked. She was accepted as a leader. She decided to reveal that she was a woman, but the revolutionary leaders would not give her a military rank.
Herrera decided to leave Pancho Villa's group. She created a group of women who, like her, wanted to fight at the front. Sources say there were tens of thousands of them.
Herrera was in the biggest fight of the war to that date, the second battle of Torreón in 1914. With 400 other women, she took the city on May 30, 1914. Cosme Mendoza Chavira, another follower of Villa, said "Ella fue quien tomo Torreón y apago las luces cuando entraron en la ciudad" (She was the one who took Torreón and turned out the lights when they entered the city.") Conventional history does not say anything about the participation of Petra Herrera. Villa gave the role of Petra Herrera in the revolution to an unknown woman.
At the end of the fighting, she asked to be a general and to continue to fight, but they only gave her a promotion to colonel. Later, the women under her command were disbanded. It is not clear how Herrera died. Some say she finished her military days as a spy. They say she was attacked by bandits and died from the wounds. Others say she died in the cross fire between the federal soldiers and the revolutionaries in Zacatecas. Others say she formed her own brigade of 25,000 women and lived in a camp where men could not enter without being attacked. Still others say she ended her existence as a waitress in the city of Juarez in Chihuahua.

</doc>
<doc id="537844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537844" title="2014–15 La Liga - Results of first round">
2014–15 La Liga - Results of first round

This is the Results of the first round of 2014–15 La Liga.

</doc>
<doc id="537850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537850" title="Category:1910s in Europe">
Category:1910s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537851" title="Category:1917 in Europe">
Category:1917 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537854" title="Category:1914 in Europe">
Category:1914 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537856" title="Category:1916 in Europe">
Category:1916 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537860" title="Category:1939 in Europe">
Category:1939 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537862" title="Category:1930s in Europe">
Category:1930s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537865" title="Category:Movies about virginity">
Category:Movies about virginity


</doc>
<doc id="537868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537868" title="Category:Carrie">
Category:Carrie


</doc>
<doc id="537870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537870" title="Category:American teen horror movies">
Category:American teen horror movies


</doc>
<doc id="537871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537871" title="Category:American sequel movies">
Category:American sequel movies


</doc>
<doc id="537873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537873" title="Category:American movie remakes">
Category:American movie remakes


</doc>
<doc id="537874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537874" title="Category:2010s teen movies">
Category:2010s teen movies


</doc>
<doc id="537896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537896" title="Bothriolepis">
Bothriolepis

Bothriolepis is a genus of antiarch placoderms. It was widespread and diverse in the middle to late Devonian. 
"Bothriolepis" lived in environments across every continent including near-shore marine and freshwater settings. Most species of "Bothriolepis" were small, benthic, freshwater detritivores. They got nutrients by eating decomposing plant/animal material. They were about in length. However, the largest species, "B. maxima", had a carapace about in length. 
Over 70 species are found across the world, but this is also typical of modern bottom dwelling species around today.

</doc>
<doc id="537897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537897" title="Category:Placoderms">
Category:Placoderms


</doc>
<doc id="537900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537900" title="Arthrodire">
Arthrodire

The Arthrodires (Arthrodira) are an order of extinct armoured, jawed fishes of the class Placodermi. They flourished in the Devonian period before their sudden extinction, surviving for about 50 million years and living in most marine ecological niches.
Greek for "jointed neck", the arthrodires had movable joints between armour plates surrounding the head and body. The mouth is interesting. As the lower jaw moved down, the head shield moved, allowing a large opening. Lacking distinct teeth, like all placoderms, they used the sharpened edges of a bony plate as a biting surface. The eye sockets are protected by a bony ring, a feature shared by birds and some ichthyosaurs. 
Early arthrodires, such as the genus "Arctolepis", were well-armoured fishes with flattened bodies. The largest member of this group, "Dunkleosteus", was a true superpredator of the latest Devonian period, from 3 to 9 m in length. In contrast, the long-nosed "Rolfosteus" measured just 15 cm.
A common misconception is the arthrodires were sluggish bottom-dwellers that were outcompeted by more advanced fish. But during their reign, the arthrodires were one of the most diverse and numerically successful vertebrate orders of the Devonian. They occupied a vast spectrum of roles from apex predator to detritus-nibbling bottom dweller. The arthrodires were one of many groups eliminated by the mass extinctions of the late Devonian. This let other fish such as sharks diversify into the vacant ecological niches during the Carboniferous period.

</doc>
<doc id="537915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537915" title="Category:People from Ventura County, California">
Category:People from Ventura County, California


</doc>
<doc id="537917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537917" title="Category:Oxnard, California">
Category:Oxnard, California


</doc>
<doc id="537918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537918" title="Category:Movies set in Manhattan">
Category:Movies set in Manhattan


</doc>
<doc id="537919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537919" title="Category:Manhattan in fiction">
Category:Manhattan in fiction


</doc>
<doc id="537927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537927" title="Captain Forever">
Captain Forever

Captain Forever is the name for several space shooter indie games created by Jarred "Farbs" Woods. There are six total versions of the games in the series.
In "Captain Forever," the player is the pilot of a ship that can be expanded or upgraded using parts (such as blasters or boosters) found from other defeated ships. The goal is to stay alive for as long as possible. The game advances by defeating ships of progressive difficulty (represented by color) You lose the game after the pilot is destroyed.
"Captain Successor" was released in 2009, and included new parts.
"Captain Impostor" was released in 2010 for supporters of the game, and included some updates
"Captain Jameson" was a new project, but scrapped in 2013. This served as the framework for the next game, "Dawn Star."
"Dawn Star" updated the game with new aesthetics and mechanics. Originally called "Captain Jameson Reboot."
"Captain Forever Remix" was released in 2015 by Jarred "Farbs" Woods with Dean Tate and Brian Chan, working with Pixelsaurus games. "Captain Forever Remix" added many new parts to the ship, and, allowed for parts to be unlocked, and a series of definitive levels (represented by planets in the solar system). The game also styles the pilot as a young girl imagining the game, playing against her brother, the antagonist of the game. Progression through the planets is achieved by destroying ships of a certain level.
"Captain Forever" won the Best Game award at China's first Independent Games Festival in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="537945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537945" title="Category:Body swapping in fiction">
Category:Body swapping in fiction


</doc>
<doc id="537947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537947" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/David Earl Williams III">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/David Earl Williams III


</doc>
<doc id="537971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537971" title="Category:People from Hackney">
Category:People from Hackney


</doc>
<doc id="537973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537973" title="Category:19th century in Asia">
Category:19th century in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="537974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537974" title="Category:Centuries in Asia">
Category:Centuries in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="537975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537975" title="Category:1980s in Europe">
Category:1980s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537976" title="Category:Decades in Europe">
Category:Decades in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537977" title="Category:1980s in Asia">
Category:1980s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="537979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537979" title="Category:Decades in Asia">
Category:Decades in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="537980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537980" title="Category:1990s in Europe">
Category:1990s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="537983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537983" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Carp scale">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Carp scale


</doc>
<doc id="538012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538012" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Templates created by 24.38.17.242">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Templates created by 24.38.17.242


</doc>
<doc id="538029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538029" title="Category:Articles with dead external links from April 2016">
Category:Articles with dead external links from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="538040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538040" title="Battle of the Atlantic">
Battle of the Atlantic

The Battle of the Atlantic was the longest continuous military campaign in World War II to defeat the Germans in 1945.

</doc>
<doc id="538073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538073" title="Paris Square (Jerusalem)">
Paris Square (Jerusalem)

Paris Square (, "Kikar Pariz", also called: France Square = "Kikar Tzarfat)" is a square or plaza in Jerusalem. The name "France Square" was established in 1959. In 2007 the city of Paris gave Jerusalem a "French Fountain" that was built in the middle of the square. From that time the square has been called: "Paris Square".

</doc>
<doc id="538082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538082" title="Moscow Square (Jerusalem)">
Moscow Square (Jerusalem)

Moscow Square (, "Kikar Moskva," ) is a public square in Jerusalem, Israel. The square was dedicated in 2007 during the visit of the mayor of Moscow Yury Luzhkov in Israel. The square is the center of the Russian Compound next to the Russian church.

</doc>
<doc id="538090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538090" title="Rome Square (Jerusalem)">
Rome Square (Jerusalem)

Rome Square (, "Kikar Roma", ) is a public square in Jerusalem, Israel. The square was dedicated in 2009 during the visit of the mayor of Rome Gianni Alemanno. The square in located next to the Italian Jews Museum and the Italian Synagogue in Jerusalem. 

</doc>
<doc id="538097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538097" title="Võ Thị Sáu">
Võ Thị Sáu

Võ Thị Sáu (Đất Đỏ, 1933 – March 13, 1952) was a Vietnamese hero. She was a schoolgirl who fought against the French. (Vietnam was a French colony until 1954.) She was a guerilla fighter. 
She was born Phước Thọ Commune, Đất Đỏ District in 1933. In 1948, she started helping the Viet Minh. Many of her friends and family were part of the Viet Minh. She was a contact for the guerillas and passed information to the fighters.
When she was 14, she attacked some French soldiers. She threw a grenade at them. A Captain was killed. Twelve soldiers were hurt. She was not caught.
In 1949, she made another attack. She threw a grenade at a man who was in charge of executions (a canton chief.) The attack did not work: the grenade didn't explode. The French police caught her after the attack. She was sent to prison. 
Sáu went to three different prisons. The last prison she went to was Côn Sơn Prison in the Côn Đảo Islands. She was executed (killed) on 13 March 1952. She was 19 years old.
Today, she is considered a martyr. She is buried in Hàng Dương Cemetery on Côn Sơn Island. Many Vietnamese people come to worship at her grave.

</doc>
<doc id="538103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538103" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Category:People who were cremated">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Category:People who were cremated


</doc>
<doc id="538107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538107" title="Electromagnetic hypersensitivity">
Electromagnetic hypersensitivity

Electromagnetic hypersensitivity (EHS) is a condition where a person feels unwell, which people who have it believe it to be due to being near electromagnetic fields". Other names for it include electrohypersensitivity, electro-sensitivity, and electrical sensitivity (ES). Wi-Fi allergy is a form of EHS.
According to the World Health Organization, EHS is described by vague symptoms that are different in each person. The symptoms are real and can be weak or strong and can make some disabled. There is no specific list of features to diagnose someone, and there is no scientific link between electromagnetic fields and how people feel. EHS is not a medical diagnosis. People who claim to have EHS blame it for headaches, fatigue, stress, sleep disturbances, skin symptoms like prickling, burning sensations and rashes, pain and ache in muscles and many other health problems. Although electromagnetic fields can make the body hot, people who say they have EHS say they feel sick at very low levels.
Most experiments show that people who claim to have EHS can't correctly tell if they are near EM radiation or not, and the medical and scientific communities don't think its a real illness. Several double-blind experiments suggest that people who say they have EHS can't detect if electromagnetic fields are present, and are just as likely to report feeling sick after a phony exposure as they are after real exposure, making scientists think it is the nocebo effect.
In the TV show "Better Call Saul", Jimmy McGill's brother Chuck stays at home and believes he suffers from electromagnetic hypersensitivity.

</doc>
<doc id="538114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538114" title="Better Call Saul">
Better Call Saul

Better Call Saul is an American television series created by Vince Gilligan and Peter Gould. It is a spin-off another show, "Breaking Bad", "Better Call Saul" is set in 2002 and follows the story of a lawyer "Jimmy" McGill (Bob Odenkirk), six years before he appeared on "Breaking Bad".
The first season consists of 10 episodes. The show's 10-episode second season premiered on February 15, 2016. On March 15, 2016, the series was renewed for a 10-episode third season.
Like the show that came before it, "Better Call Saul" has been praised by critics. It has been nominated for several awards, including four Primetime Emmy Awards, three Writers Guild of America Awards, two Critics' Choice Television Awards, a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Golden Globe Award. The first episode held the record for the highest-rated scripted series premiere in basic cable history.

</doc>
<doc id="538135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538135" title="United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda">
United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda

The United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) was created by the United Nations Security Council in October 1993. This was just after the end of the Rwandan Civil War. UNAMIR's goals were to help put a peace agreement into place, monitor how well it was going, and support the new government. 
However, on April 7, 1994, while UNAMIR was in Rwanda, the Rwandan genocide started. The genocide lasted 100 days. During that time, 800,000 people were killed; 2 million became refugees in other countries; another two million had to run away to different parts of Rwanda; and up to 250,000 women were raped.
The UNAMIR ended in March 1996. Since the genocide, the United Nations has admitted that they failed to prevent the Rwandan genocide.
In a genocide, many or all people in a group are killed because of their ethnicity, religion, or political opinions. In the Rwandan genocide, members of an ethnic group called the Tutsi ("abatutsi") were killed because of their ethnicity. The killers were extremist members of another ethnic group called the Hutu ("abahutu"). The Hutu killers also killed other Hutus whose political beliefs were not as extreme as theirs. 
In 1994, almost all Rwandan people (85%) were Hutus. However, for many years, the Tutsi minority had more power and ran the Rwandan government. From 1990-1993, the two groups had fought a civil war about who would control the government. This war ended with a peace treaty in 1993. One of the reasons UNAMIR got involved was to make sure both sides obeyed that agreement.
However, on April 6, 1994, an airplane carrying the Presidents of Rwanda and Burundi was shot down. Both Presidents were Hutus. Nobody knows for sure who shot down the plane. However, the Hutu extremists blamed a Tutsi rebel group, and right away, they started killing Tutsis. The Rwandan genocide began that day.
There were not many countries in the United Nations that were interested in sending peacekeeping troops to Rwanda, even before the genocide started. France was an ally of the Hutu-led government, and did not want to fight it. The United States had just had soldiers tortured and killed in Somalia a year before, and did not want to get into another fight in Africa." Also, many countries thought there was nothing in it for them if they helped Rwanda. Rwanda had no important natural resources, like oil or gold, and it was tiny. It took five months to get United Nations member countries to offer enough soldiers for this mission.
Once the genocide started, UNAMIR ran into a serious problem. UNAMIR has to get its "mandate" (its powers, goals, and orders for a mission) from the United Nations Security Council. For this mission, UNAMIR's mandate did "not" include stopping the genocide or protecting civilians. At this time, UNAMIR soldiers were only allowed to shoot their weapons in self-defence, if somebody was attacking them personally. They were not allowed to use their weapons or get involved to protect civilians who were being attacked.
Once they saw what was happening in Rwanda, the UNAMIR Commander, Roméo Dallaire, and Belgian peacekeepers asked the Security Council to give them more power and soldiers to stop the killings. However, the United Nations member countries refused to change these rules for UNAMIR. They and other world leaders talked about the genocide as 'just another ethnic conflict' and said these types of things would always go on in Africa.
After ten of its soldiers were tortured and killed trying to protect the prime minister, Belgium pulled the rest of its soldiers out of Rwanda.
More and more, UNAMIR's peacekeeping troops were being attacked. Other countries began to copy Belgium and pull their soldiers out of Rwanda. Some members of the United Nations Security Council, like the United States, argued strongly that the UN should take "all" of its peacekeeping troops out of Rwanda. Eventually, the Security Council decided to decrease the number of troops UNAMIR was allowed to have. On April 21, 1994, as the genocide was spreading across Rwanda, the Security Council decreased the number of allowed UNAMIR troops from 2,548 to 270 a decrease of almost 90%.
UNAMIR's Commander, Roméo Dallaire, kept asking the United Nations for more troops. On May 15, the Security Council increased UNAMIR's allowed number of troops to 5,500. However, it took almost six months for UN member countries to volunteer this many troops. Meanwhile, the genocide continued.
France offered to lead a humanitarian mission in southwest Rwanda while UNAMIR was trying to gather more troops. The Security Council approved this mission on June 22, 1994. France called the mission "Operation Turquoise."
During this operation, soldiers from France and other countries set up a "safe zone" in southwest Rwanda. This was meant to be an area where people could come to be protected from Hutu attacks. Historians think that Operation Turquoise saved 13,000 to 14,000 lives.
However, many people have accused France of not doing enough to stop the genocide in its safe zone. Here are some of the things France's accusers say:
France says it never did these things.
Operation Turquoise ended in August 1994, when UNAMIR took over the safe zone.
Together with the Ugandan army, a Tutsi rebel group called the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) fought the extremist Hutus. Bit by bit, they took control of more parts of Rwanda. Finally, on July 4, 1994, they took control of Kigali, Rwanda's capital city.
After this, about two million Hutus ran away from Rwanda to Zaire. This group included many of the genocide's leaders. With the RPF in control of the country, the killings stopped.
UNAMIR stayed in Rwanda for about two years after the genocide stopped. It worked on finding homes for refugees, clearing landmines, and helping with humanitarian aid. Meanwhile, the United Nations raised $762 million to help the genocide victims and to help rebuild the country. However, Rwanda did not want UNAMIR to stay in its country. Rwandan leaders told the United Nations that the UN did not help with what Rwanda really needed. It asked UNAMIR to leave Rwanda. In March 1996, UNAMIR did.
Since the end of the Rwandan genocide, many people have blamed the United Nations for failing to prevent or stop the genocide.
In 2000, United Nations Security Council admitted that it did fail to prevent the genocide. They said that they could have helped stopped the killings, but they did not.
In 1999, Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, asked for an independent report about the Rwandan genocide. He wanted to know why the United Nations and the world had "failed" to stop the Rwandan genocide. The report said that the major failures were:
Also, at the time, historic things were happening in South Africa. Apartheid was ending. The international mass media chose to focus on that instead of what was happening in Rwanda. They, like the UN, saw the Rwandan genocide as just another fight between African tribes. Because there was little to no news broadcasts about Rwanda, most people in the world did not know what was going on there. They could not push their governments to get involved.
Martin Dominque argues that world leaders may not have wanted to send troops to Africa because they had the wrong ideas about what African people are like. If they thought African people were always fighting each other and always would, they would think the Rwandan genocide was no different.
Since the independent report came out in 1999, the UN and the United States have released documents that used to be classified. These documents prove that the UN and the United States:
Roméo Dallaire also says he tried many times to warn the United Nations that a disaster was coming in Rwanda. Finally, he sent a fax to the military adviser of the Secreretary-General of the United Nations. He said he had secretly spoken with a leader of the Hutu militia. This man told him his soldiers were trained and ready to kill Tutsis. For example, he said, his soldiers could kill 1,000 Tutsi in 20 minutes. The man said he thought that huge massacres of Tutsis were about to begin. Finally, he told Dallaire where the Hutu militia were keeping many of their weapons.
In his fax, Dallaire said he wanted to take action and take away those weapons. If the weapons were not taken away, they would be used to kill Tutsis.
The next day, he received a fax back from Kofi Annan, who was in charge of peacekeeping at the United Nations. He ordered Dallaire not to take any action. He told Dallaire that protecting citizens was not part of UNAMIR's mandate. About three months later, the Rwandan genocide began.

</doc>
<doc id="538138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538138" title="Category:Rwandan genocide">
Category:Rwandan genocide


</doc>
<doc id="538139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538139" title="Kollam temple fire">
Kollam temple fire

On 10 April 2016 at around 3:30 am Indian Standard Time, there was an explosion and fire at the Puttingal Temple in Paravur, Kollam, Kerala, India. The incident happened when firework celebrations went out of control. More than 100 people were killed. More than 350 were injured, some with severe burns. The temple did not have permission from Kerala Government authorities to do a competitive fireworks display.

</doc>
<doc id="538146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538146" title="Marie Christine de Rouvroy">
Marie Christine de Rouvroy

Marie Christine de Rouvroy (May 7, 1728 - July 4, 1774) was a French noblewoman. She was later a member of the House of Grimaldi by marriage. She was a granddaughter of the famous writer, the "duc de Saint-Simon" (1675-1755). She was known as the Countess of Valentinois or as Princess Charles Maurice of Monaco. She was a lady-in-waiting to three of the daughters of Louis XV of France and to the Countess of Provence.
Her parents were Jacques Louis de Rouvroy, Duke of Ruffec (1698-1746) and his wife Catherine Charlotte Thérèse de Gramont (1707-1755). She was known as "Mademoiselle de Ruffec" before marriage. she was formally married to Prince Charles Maurice Grimaldi of Monaco, "Count of Valentinois" on 10 December 1749. The wedding took place in the private chapel of the Hôtel Saint-Simon in Paris with the express permission of Louis XV. The couple eventually separated in 1766, having had no children. 

</doc>
<doc id="538182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538182" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Unused user language categories and templates">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Unused user language categories and templates


</doc>
<doc id="538187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538187" title="Category:Movies directed by Paul Verhoeven">
Category:Movies directed by Paul Verhoeven


</doc>
<doc id="538194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538194" title="Category:Football clubs in London">
Category:Football clubs in London


</doc>
<doc id="538216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538216" title="Złotoryja">
Złotoryja

Złotoryja (German: Goldberg, Latin: Aurum) it's a town in southwest Poland in Lower Silesian Voivodeship. Złotoryja is a capital of Złotoryja County.
Since 1945 Złotoryja was a part of German Reich.
Since 8th until 10th century in the area of Złotoryja lived people from tribe called Trzebowianie. At the end of the 12th century German miners settled here.
In 1211 Złotoryja received the city law. In 1241 miners from Złotoryja fought in Battle of Legnica against Mongols. 
Złotoryja was Czech fief since 1328.

</doc>
<doc id="538220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538220" title="Category:Surface features of the Moon">
Category:Surface features of the Moon


</doc>
<doc id="538228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538228" title="Impuzamugambi">
Impuzamugambi

The Impuzamugambi was a militia that was created in Rwanda in 1992. "Impuzamugambi" means "those with the same goal" in Kinyarwanda, Rwanda's official language.
The Impuzamugambi was made of young people from an ethnic group called the Hutus. A similar militia, the Interahamwe, was also made of young Hutus. Together, these two militias killed tens of thousands of Tutsis, members of another ethnic group, in the Rwandan genocide. They also killed some Hutus who did not agree with the pro-Hutu government.
In 1992, two political parties that supported the Hutu president created the Impuzamugambi and the Interahamwe. These political parties were extremist pro-Hutu groups.
The militias got training from the Rwandan army. Some groups and witnesses have said that French soldiers also trained the militias. One of the militias' commanders bragged that his men were so well trained that they could kill 1,000 Tutsis in 20 minutes.
On April 6, 1994, Rwanda's President, Juvénal Habyarimana, and Burundi's President were in an airplane that got shot down. Both men were Hutus. As the United States Department of State said later:
Within half an hour of the airplane crash, the Impuzamugambi and the Interahamwe started blocking the roads in Kigali, Rwanda's capital city. All Rwandans had to carry identification cards that said their ethnic group on them. The militias killed every Tutsi they found.
The militias kept using roadblocks, which became an important part of Rwanda's genocide strategy:
During the first few days of the genocide, the Rwandan Army and the Presidential Guard took charge of executing people in Kigali. However, the Impuzamugambi and the Interahamwe were with them, and the soldiers taught them what to do. Soon, they were working together. First the soldiers would fire grenades, tear gas, and machine guns into places where Tutsis might be staying. Then the militia were allowed to go in and kill everybody inside. Often, they used machetes or clubs to kill people. Then the soldiers and militia would search, inch by inch, to find anyone who might still be hiding.
In this way, the Rwandan army and the militias killed 20,000 people in the first five days of the genocide.
According to Human Rights Watch, before April 6, the militias had only about 2,000 members, mostly in Kigali. However: "Once the genocide began and militia members began reaping the rewards of violence, their numbers [increased quickly] to between twenty and thirty thousand for the [whole] country[.]" Eventually, the Impuzamugambi and the Interahamwe grew so much that together they had 50,000 members. That was half as many members as the regular Rwandan Army had.
This allowed the militias to spread the genocide around Rwanda. There were militia all over the country. However, the militia did not do all of the killing in the genocide. They encouraged, and sometimes forced, regular people to kill their Tutsi neighbors, friends, wives, or husbands. If they did not do this, they would be killed themselves.
The militias massacred groups of Tutsis who were trying to hide in places like schools and churches. For example, on April 21, 1994, in the Murambi Technical School massacre, militia members killed almost 65,000 Tutsis in one day.
The militias also raped and sexually assaulted many women and girls. Overall, during the genocide, between 150,000 and 250,000 women and girls were raped (though there is no way to know how many of these crimes were committed by militia, and how many by army members).
The Ugandan army joined the a Tutsi rebel army in fighting the extremist Hutus. Bit by bit, they took control of more parts of Rwanda. Finally, on July 4, 1994, they took control of Kigali.
After this, about two million Hutus ran away from Rwanda to Zaire (now called the Democratic Republic of the Congo). With the Tutsis in control, the genocide ended.
Many of the Impuzamugambi were among the two million people who fled from Rwanda to eastern Zaire. The Tutsi and Ugandan armies went after them. According to the BBC, "Human rights groups say the [Tutsi rebel army] killed thousands of Hutu civilians as they took power and more after they went into [Zaire] to [follow] the [militias]." However, there is no way to know how many members of the Impuzamugambi may have been killed.
However, an international court was able to convict two of the Impuzamugambi's commanders: Hassan Ngeze and Jean Bosco Barayagwiza. In 1995, the United Nations Security Council set up the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). Its goal was to prosecute people who took part in genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity.
In 2003, the ICTR found both Ngeze and Barayagwiza guilty of planning and leading the genocide; trying to get other people to commit genocide; and crimes against humanity. They were both sentenced to life in prison. The sentence against Barayagwiza was later decreased to 35 years due to a legal mistake. He will stay in prison for at least 27 years.

</doc>
<doc id="538229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538229" title="Free French Forces">
Free French Forces

The Free French Forces were a free army during the occupation of France in WWII. It started in 1940 and ended due to the invasion of Normandy in 1944. These forces made a major impact on the German army by destroying railroads and attacking German units.

</doc>
<doc id="538232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538232" title="Category:2007 television seasons">
Category:2007 television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538233" title="Category:2008 television seasons">
Category:2008 television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538236" title="Category:2000s television seasons">
Category:2000s television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538237" title="Category:Television seasons">
Category:Television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538238" title="Category:2010 television seasons">
Category:2010 television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538239" title="Category:Television seasons by year">
Category:Television seasons by year


</doc>
<doc id="538240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538240" title="Category:2000s in television">
Category:2000s in television


</doc>
<doc id="538241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538241" title="Category:2011 television seasons">
Category:2011 television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538242" title="Prince Charles Maurice, Count of Valentinois">
Prince Charles Maurice, Count of Valentinois

Prince Charles Maurice, Count of Valentinois (14 May 1727 – 18 January 1798) was a Monégasque prince and member of the House of Grimaldi. He was known by his title Count of Valentinois. He had a fairly importanmt military career and was also a Grandee of Spain. He is also sometimes referred to as Prince Charles Maurice of Monaco. 
Born at the "Hôtel Matignon" in Paris, he was the eighth child of the reigning Princess Louise Hippolyte of Monaco and her husband Prince Jacques I. His father was the Duke of Valentinois but the title was given to Charles Maurice to be used as a Count. 
His older brother Honoré III would later become the next Prince of Monacao when their father died in 1751. 
Married on 10 November 1749 to Marie Christine de Rouvroy the couple were married in Paris with the express permission of Louis XV of France. They separated in 1766 having had no children together. 
At the age of 18 he partook in the Battle of Fontenoy For his military abilities he was awarded the Order of the Golden Fleece. 

</doc>
<doc id="538244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538244" title="Category:2010s television seasons">
Category:2010s television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538245" title="Category:2012 television seasons">
Category:2012 television seasons


</doc>
<doc id="538246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538246" title="Category:2010s in television">
Category:2010s in television


</doc>
<doc id="538265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538265" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Countermand Amendment">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Countermand Amendment


</doc>
<doc id="538273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538273" title="Category:Doping in sport">
Category:Doping in sport


</doc>
<doc id="538282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538282" title="École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées">
École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées

École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées (ENSTA ParisTech) is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay.
Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :
Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ENSTA ParisTech.
Most of the 600 graduate engineer students at ENSTA ParisTech live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports.
Admission to the "ENSTA ParisTech engineering Programme" implemented at ENSTA ParisTech is possible after two/three year scientific undergraduate studies and requires success to either: 
The "ENSTA Programme" typically lasts three years and results in a Master degree, augmented with international experience. Thus undergraduate studies + the ENSTA Programme account for more than a cumulated 300 ECTS credits as applicable in the European education system.
However, graduate students enrolled in the TIME double degree procedure are required to spend two-years at ENSTA ParisTech and spend two years in the TIME-partner institute for a total of four years resulting in a double master degree.
Research activities at ENSTA ParisTech relate to the following topics:

</doc>
<doc id="538285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538285" title="Wind instrument">
Wind instrument

A wind instrument is a type of musical instrument where the player blows into (or over) a mouthpiece to produce sound. They typically fit into two categories: woodwind instruments and brass instruments. Woodwind instruments include oboe, clarinet, flute, and saxophone. The brass instruments include the bugle, trumpet, trombone, cornet and tuba. 

</doc>
<doc id="538306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538306" title="Category:1940 in Europe">
Category:1940 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538311" title="Kawasaki Heavy Industries C151">
Kawasaki Heavy Industries C151

The Kawasaki Heavy Industries C151 is a type of train used by Singapore's Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) system. It is one of the four types of electric multiple units on the North South and East West Lines.
The trains were introduced in 1987 and are still in operation. There are sixty-six trainsets with six cars each. There is a single money trainset with four cars. These trains are operated by SMRT Trains.

</doc>
<doc id="538312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538312" title="Category:1941 in Europe">
Category:1941 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538316" title="Category:1940s in the Soviet Union">
Category:1940s in the Soviet Union


</doc>
<doc id="538334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538334" title="Category:1943 in Europe">
Category:1943 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538337" title="Category:1940s in Europe">
Category:1940s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538340" title="Category:American magicians">
Category:American magicians


</doc>
<doc id="538341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538341" title="Category:1944 in Europe">
Category:1944 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538342" title="Category:1940s in Japan">
Category:1940s in Japan


</doc>
<doc id="538343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538343" title="Category:1944 in the United States">
Category:1944 in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="538344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538344" title="Category:20th century in China">
Category:20th century in China


</doc>
<doc id="538345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538345" title="Category:Massacres in Europe">
Category:Massacres in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538346" title="El Hedim Square">
El Hedim Square

El Hedim Square (, "the square of demolition") is a famous square in Meknes, Morocco. The square was built in the years 1672-1674 after the Sultan of Morocco, Moulay Ismail, demolished half of the Old city of Meknes for his palace and the square. 

</doc>
<doc id="538350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538350" title="Buprestidae">
Buprestidae

Buprestida is a family of beetles. In English, they are known as jewel beetles or metallic wood-boring beetles, because of the coloring of their carapace. The family is among the largest of the beetles, with some 15,000 recent species in 450 genera. In addition, almost 100 fossil species have been described.

</doc>
<doc id="538357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538357" title="Moroccan riad">
Moroccan riad

A Moroccan riad is a traditional Moroccan house or palace with an inside garden or courtyard. A riad normally has two or more storeys around an Andalusian-style courtyard that contained a fountain. They usually do not have outside-facing windows. Riads were the city homes of the wealthiest citizens such as merchants and courtiers. The name riad comes from the Arabic word ‘ryad’, meaning a garden.

</doc>
<doc id="538361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538361" title="Category:1940s in Asia">
Category:1940s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="538362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538362" title="Category:1945 in Asia">
Category:1945 in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="538363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538363" title="Category:Years in Asia">
Category:Years in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="538387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538387" title="Income tax in the United States">
Income tax in the United States

In the United States, people have to pay income taxes to the United States government, most state governments, and many local governments. This means that people have to pay taxes to these governments, based on how much money they earn.
Income taxes are based on what a person earns in one calendar year between January 1 and December 31.
When it takes income taxes, the government takes a percentage of a person's income. This percentage is called an income tax rate. In other words, the income tax rate is the part, or portion, of a person's income that the government takes.
The United States government, and most states, use "progressive" tax rates. This means that as a person earns more income, their income tax rate gets higher. In other words, as a person earns more money, they have to pay more taxes.
Every year, the government divides incomes into categories. These categories are called tax brackets. Each tax bracket includes a range of incomes the lowest and highest amounts a person could earn to be in that tax bracket.
Tax brackets are important because each one is taxed at a different tax rate. In other words, a person in a higher income category has to pay a larger percentage of their income in taxes. The tax rates for each different tax bracket are called marginal tax rates.
For example, in 2016, these are the tax brackets and marginal tax rates for single people:
However, this does not mean that a person making $415,051 is paying 39.6% of that entire $415,051 in income taxes. Tax rates in the United States are "marginal." This means that different portions of a person's income get taxed at different rates. 
For example, if a person earns $9,276 in a year, they do not have to pay 15% of that whole amount. The first $9,275 that they earned falls into the first tax bracket ($0 $9275, which has a 10% tax rate). The person pays the 10% tax rate for all of their income that fell into that tax bracket. The person has only $1 left in income that falls into the next tax bracket ($9,276 $37,650). They only have to pay that tax bracket's tax rate of 15% on that one dollar.
In other words, what the chart above really means is that in 2016, for a single person:
Usually, the government uses a person's gross income to decide how much they should be taxed. A person's gross income is every dollar they have earned in a year.
However, there are some types of income that the government cannot take as part of income taxes.
Deductions are certain kinds of costs that the government does not tax. The government will decrease (or "deduct") these costs from a person's gross income. This means the government will be taxing the person on less income.
There are many kinds of deductions. There are some deductions that anyone who pays taxes can take. For example, if a person has paid to move, paid into a retirement fund, or paid student loan interest, they can take these costs off their gross income. The government will not tax these costs.
The federal government also gives a "standard deduction" to most people who are paying income taxes. For example, in 2015, the standard deduction for a single person was $6,300. The government does not tax this amount.
Sometimes people have other deductions that will add up to more than the standard deduction. These can also be used to decrease the amount of income the government can tax a person on. 
The federal government allows each person who files taxes to take a tax deduction called a "personal exemption." When the United States Congress created tax rules in 1954, they thought a certain amount of money should not be taxed so that a person could spend that money on food, housing, and other basic needs. In 2015, the personal exemption for one person was $4,000. Most people can take another exemption for their spouse, and another for each child in their home.
Many states have their own deductions. For example, if a person in Massachusetts pays rent to a landlord, they can deduct half of their rent (up to $3,000) from the amount of income the government can tax them on.
The federal government also offers tax credits. This means that if a person spends money on certain things, and meets all the rules of the credit program, the government will give them back every dollar they spent. For example, the Child and Dependent Care Credit is for parents who work, but have to pay over $3,000 a year for someone to take care of their children while they are working. Each credit has many different rules that people must meet. However, if they do meet them, the federal government will take $3,000 off of their taxes, to help the parents continue to work.
Every year, most people in the United States must file a report of their income from the year, their deductions, credits, and any other special tax issues. This report is called a tax return. The tax return helps work out what a person might owe the government in taxes. On the other hand, if a person has been paying their taxes bit by bit, the government may owe "them" money. This is called a tax refund.
Usually, all tax returns are due by April 15. However, because of holidays in Washington, D.C., sometimes "Tax Day" comes a few days later.
There are a five different ways that a person, or a couple, can file their tax returns:
Sometimes a person fits into more than one of these categories. If this happens, they are allowed to file their taxes using the category that will let them pay the least amount of taxes.
Filing status is important because many things change based on what filing status a person files their taxes under. For example:
Here is a basic example of how a person would work out what they have to pay in taxes, based on their income, filing status, and deductions.
First the person needs to work out their "taxable income". This is the amount of income the government can tax. It does not include deductions, since the government does not tax those. So, to get their taxable income, the person needs to subtract their deductions from their gross income. In other words:
$20,000 (gross income) $6,300 (standard deduction) $4,000 (personal exemption) = $9,700 taxable income
Now the person can use lists of tax brackets and marginal tax rates to figure out what they owe in taxes. Here are the tax brackets and marginal tax rates that apply to this person:
This person is paying only 4.9% of their gross (total) income to the government in income taxes.
According to the White House, in 2014, the United States government spent people's federal income taxes on these things:
Every state gets to decide where to spend the income tax it collects (its income tax revenue). Different states use this money for different things, at different times.
In 2015, a report looked at what every state spent its income tax revenue on. It found that most of state income tax dollars went to pay for education and health care.
Specifically, states spent over half of their income tax revenues on three different things:
The 2015 report found that the states spent the other half of their income tax revenues on many different things. Here are some examples.
Transportation makes up about 5% of the states' spending. Income taxes pay for many things, like:
States spend about 4% of their income tax revenue on corrections. These income taxes pay for things like:
Many states also use income tax revenues to pay for important "public services," like:

</doc>
<doc id="538389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538389" title="Category:1930s in Asia">
Category:1930s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="538393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538393" title="Category:1945 in Europe">
Category:1945 in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538394" title="Category:1945 in Japan">
Category:1945 in Japan


</doc>
<doc id="538430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538430" title="Gomillion v. Lightfoot">
Gomillion v. Lightfoot

Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U.S. 339 (1960), was a United States Supreme Court decision in which the Court ruled the redrawing of the city's electoral district boundaries to prevent blacks from voting was unconstitutional. The unanimous Court held that it violated the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. This case was one of several that led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
In 1957, the Alabama state legislature passed Act number 140 that changed the borders of the city of Tuskegee's electoral district. It changed the square boundary of Tuskegee to an irregular 28-sided figure that eliminated all but a few of the city's 400 black voters but did not eliminate any white voters. It had the effect of keeping African-American citizens from voting. The petitioners Charles A. Gomillion and other black former residents of Tuskegee brought the suit against the Mayor of Tuskegee, Philip M. Lightfoot. They wanted the law ruled unconstitutional under the Fifteenth Amendment. They also wanted an order that prevented the city from enforcing the Act. 
The District Court dismissed the case on the grounds it did not have the authority to invalidate an Act passed by the state legislature. The court ruled:
On 14 November 1960, the Supreme Court dismissed the ruling by the lower courts and ruled the Alabama redistricting act was unconstitutional. Justice Felix Frankfurter wrote the majority opinion. He admitted that when states exercise power "wholly within the domain of state interest" they are generally protected from judicial review. But Alabama's representatives were not able to identify "any countervailing municipal function" that this act could serve. It was clear the irregular shaped district had only one purpose, namely, to prevent blacks from any participation in the political system of Tuskegee.
This case marked a change in the Supreme Court's involvement in political redistricting. Up to this point the Court had shown it was reluctant to interfere with the States when establishing political boundaries of their cities. However, this case served to show that states cannot deprive citizens of their voting rights which are protected by the Fifteenth Amendment. Although the practice of gerrymandering remained an issue after this case, the Court determined it was unconstitutional when it clearly discriminated against any particular racial group.

</doc>
<doc id="538438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538438" title="United States v. Wong Kim Ark">
United States v. Wong Kim Ark

United States v. Wong Kim Ark, , is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court ruled that a child born in the United States to parents of Chinese descent automatically becomes a U.S. citizen by birth based on the Citizenship Clause in the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.
Wong Kim Ark was born in San Francisco, California in 1873 to parents who were Chinese immigrants and who remained the subjects of the Emperor of China. Ark had lived in California ever since he was born. In 1882, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act. This act denied citizenship to any Chinese immigrants and did not allow any new immigrants into the United States from China until 1892. Ark's parents returned to China in 1890. He visited them there but returned to San Francisco and was recognized as a native-born American citizen when he re-entered the country. In 1894, when he was 21 years old, Ark went to visit his parents in China again. But when he returned in 1895 the U.S. Customs denied his entry, claiming he was not a U.S. citizen. Ark was returned to the ship he came on, then to another ship the "Gaelic". He was sent to Peking, China where he waited for a chance to return to the United States where he lived.
Ark did not know at the time his situation would be used as a test case by the United States government. The anti-Chinese sentiment at the time was trying to undermine the Fourteenth Amendment provision which made Ark a citizen in the first place. It said “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside.” Since the beginning, America had welcomed people from other countries. The Chinese came to America, mined its gold, built its railways and farmed much of northern California. But when the Panic of 1873 struck, it caused a major depression where many in the U.S. lost their jobs. The Chinese workers, who worked for very low wages, became scapegoats and were blamed for much of the trouble. There was mob violence and arson against Chinese workers in California. As a part of this, Congress enacted the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882 to try to stop Chinese immigration into the U.S.
With legal support from the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, Ark sued the U.S. government. A District court issued a writ of Habeas corpus on Ark's behalf. Government lawyers challenged the writ. The issue was whether his birth in San Francisco made him a citizen of the United States. The argument against Ark was his parents were subjects of China which made Ark a subject of China as well. Therefore, he was not, in the words of the Fourteenth Amendment, "subject to the jurisdiction" of the United States and was therefore not a U.S. citizen. Both China and Japan held that children born to their citizens, wherever they were born, was based on their bloodline. Chinese law stated children born to Chinese nationals were citizens of China, as long as their birth is properly registered in China. The U.S. is mainly a country of citizenship by soil, also called "Jus soli". This means they are citizens, by 'right of the soil', based on the state, territory or country in which they were born. 
Lawyers for the federal government claimed that Chinese citizenship law was more important than U.S. citizenship law in this case. The Supreme Court disagreed.
Both parties had agreed to the following facts of the case: 
The question was whether the government could deny citizenship to persons born in the United States in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The court ruled that Ark is an American citizen by virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment. Justice Horace Gray delivered the majority opinion of the Court.
The case of United States v. Wong Kim Ark set a legal precedent for all children born in the United States, regardless of their parents' status or citizenship. During the campaigning for the United States presidential election, 2016, the issue of children born in this country to undocumented aliens has come up again. Because of "Wong Kim Ark", a child born in the U.S. is a citizen regardless of his or her parents’ citizenship or status. This could change by means of a Constitutional amendment, but this is a lengthy and difficult process.

</doc>
<doc id="538439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538439" title="Western Punjabi Wikipedia">
Western Punjabi Wikipedia

Western Punjabi Wikipedia is the Western Punjabi edition of Wikipedia. The Western Punjabi language is spoken in Punjab region of Pakistan country. It also has the name of Lahnda language. It holds the 84th place in complete list of Wikipedia by articles, with 41,671+ articles in Wikipedia.
It is one of the popular Wikipedia in the country of Pakistan like in the region of Punjab of Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="538441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538441" title="Light Rail Transit (Singapore)">
Light Rail Transit (Singapore)

The Light Rail Transit (LRT) is a light rail system used in Singapore. It acts as a feeder service to the Mass Rapid Transit network. It started operation in 6 November 1999 with the Bukit Panjang LRT route. As of 2016, the system consists of three lines with 43 stations.
To keep from having traffic jams in the affected areas during peak hours, the Land Transport Authority (LTA) decided to build a light rail system. Construction began in 1996 with the Bukit Panjang LRT route running from Choa Chu Kang. It would serve areas in Bukit Panjang. It was opened on 6 November 1999.
The LRT is also used in the Sengkang and Punggol areas. Construction began in January 2000 for both the East Loop and West Loop of Sengkang LRT and Punggol LRT. Sengkang East Loop was opened on 18 January 2003. Sengkang West Loop and Punggol East Loop were opened to traffic on 29 January 2005.
LRT lines stopped being built in 2008 because of no more open space for rails.
There are three lines along Singapore LRT's network and across 43 stations and served East and West Loops along Sengkang and Punggol Areas while Bukit Panjang served Single Loop by terminating at Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station
They were served by using Automated People Mover stocks which was in one carriage formation. And the two-car operation will be coupled with another train. On two-car operations, passengers cannot pass through another carriage, the way to transfer to another carriage is by alighting and reboard the station. So far they were introduced by Bombardier Innovia APM 100 and Crystal Mover
Sengkang LRT Line and Punggol LRT Line have not been using two-carriage formation since 2013, but from 2015 was started two-carriage formation along Sengkang LRT Line. Formerly, Bukit Panjang LRT Line was used two-carriage during peak hours, once more C801As have on service, it will run two-carriage whole day.
On 24 November 2015, they were announced to install Platform Barriers to all 42 non-air conditioned stations, Ten Mile Junction LRT Station will not be installed since Platform screen doors was already been installed since 6 November 1999. They will be installed between 2016 to 2018. And it was been completed at Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station and Bukit Panjang MRT/LRT Station. The platform barriers will say "Please Keep Clear". The platform barriers will not be installed with platform doors, possibly not all the time they fall onto the tracks, or LTA need to save money.
Sengkang MRT/LRT Station, has installed Platform Screen Panels to prevent from falling onto the tracks, but there is no electrical compartments, but however that station will still be install with Platform Barriers to prevent more from falling. Ten Mile Junction LRT Station was Air conditioned and was equipped with Platform screen doors since then, and it is the only LRT Station with Platform screen doors and air-conditioned. The platform barriers will not be similar to MRT structures.
The train headways will be usually 2.2 minutes on Bukit Panjang LRT Line along Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station to Bukit Panjang MRT/LRT Station while 4.4 minutes along Petir LRT Station - Senja LRT Station. While, Sengkang LRT Line and Punggol LRT Line had never been stated the train timings arriving at the station, but the best way to see is at Fernvale LRT Station which will shows the time the train will be arriving at the station.
Ten Mile Junction LRT Station, the service is always headway at 20 minutes each train, possibly due to insufficient demand. The trains will be arrived at 20 minutes each. In the past, Bukit Panjang LRT Line was being used 3 minutes each between Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station and Bukit Panjang MRT/LRT Station while 6 minutes each between Petir LRT Station and Senja LRT Station. And the trains will show the next train arrivals. Every station along Bukit Panjang LRT Line will show two next train arrivals which will be fixed in arriving headways.

</doc>
<doc id="538444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538444" title="Bukit Brown MRT Station">
Bukit Brown MRT Station

Bukit Brown MRT Station (CC18) is a Circle MRT Line station in Singapore. The station has never been used. It was built for future use. Nearby is Bukit Brown Cemetery, the only remaining cemetery in Singapore. 
Previous: Caldecott (CC17)<br>Next: Botanic Gardens (CC19/DT9)

</doc>
<doc id="538447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538447" title="Category:19th century in North America">
Category:19th century in North America


</doc>
<doc id="538448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538448" title="Category:19th century by continent">
Category:19th century by continent


</doc>
<doc id="538449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538449" title="Category:19th century establishments in North America">
Category:19th century establishments in North America


</doc>
<doc id="538466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538466" title="Prince Charles, Count of Carladès">
Prince Charles, Count of Carladès

Prince Charles of Monaco, Count of Carladés (Charles Marie Auguste; 1 January 1722 – 24 August 1749), was a Monégasque prince. He was known as the Count of Carladés. He was also the Count of Matignon.
Charles was born in Paris. He was the fourth child and third son of Princess Louise Hippolyte of Monaco and her husband Jacques I of Monaco. As the son of the then-reigning monarch of Monaco, he was a member of the House of Grimaldi. He was given the title of "Count of Carladés". He was also given the title of Count of Matignon in June 1744. aged 12. 
Charles never married and never had children. He died of smallpox in the town of "Prats-de-Mollo-la-Preste" in the Pyrenees. 

</doc>
<doc id="538487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538487" title="Category:Wikipedians interested in Star Wars">
Category:Wikipedians interested in Star Wars


</doc>
<doc id="538488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538488" title="Category:Pages needing cleanup from April 2016">
Category:Pages needing cleanup from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="538489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538489" title="New Jersey Legislature">
New Jersey Legislature

The New Jersey Legislature is the legislative branch of the government of the U.S. state of New Jersey. In its current form, as defined by the New Jersey Constitution of 1947, the Legislature consists of two houses: the General Assembly and the Senate. The Legislature meets in the New Jersey State House, in the state capital of Trenton.
The New Jersey Legislature was established in 1702 upon the surrender by the Proprietors of East Jersey and those of West Jersey of the right of government to Queen Anne. Anne's government united the two colonies as the Province of New Jersey, a royal colony, establishing a new system of government.
On December 6, 1775, Governor William Franklin prorogued the New Jersey Legislature until January 3, 1776, but it never met again. On May 30, 1776, Franklin attempted to convene the legislature, but was met instead with an order by the New Jersey Provincial Congress for his arrest. On July 2, 1776, the Provincial Congress approved a new constitution which ordered new elections; on August 13 an entire new legislature was elected.
In 1775, representatives from New Jersey's 13 counties established a Provincial Congress to supersede the Royal Governor. 
The New Jersey Constitution of 1844 provided for a direct popular election of the governor, and gave him the power to veto bills passed by the Legislature. The General Assembly was expanded to 60 members, elected annually and apportioned to the counties based on population. 
Regardless of any changes, the Legislature met infrequently, had high turnover among its members, and was far from being the most influential or powerful organ of state government.
New Jersey adopted its current constitution in 1947. Under this constitution, the governor was given additional veto powers and the ability to serve two terms. Hundreds of independent agencies were consolidated into 20 principal executive departments under the control of the governor. Senators' terms were extended to four years; assemblymen's terms to two years.
In 1966, the Senate was expanded from 21 to 40 members and the General Assembly from 60 to 80. Following a United States Supreme Court decision in 1964 and a New Jersey Supreme Court decision in 1972, the state's legislative districts were reapportioned into the current arrangement. Two more modern developments have also helped shape the Legislature: the increase in importance of legislative committees and the development of longer tenures for the legislative leadership.
The Legislature has the power to enact laws by a majority vote of both houses, subject to the Governor of New Jersey's ability to veto a bill. A veto may be overridden by the Legislature if there is a two-thirds majority in favor of overriding in each House.
By a three-fifths vote of each house, the Legislature may propose an amendment to the State Constitution. Alternatively, it may propose an amendment by a majority vote two consecutive years. The Senate has the sole authority to confirm or reject gubernatorial nominees for judicial and some executive positions.
The current organization of the Legislature is outlined by Article IV ("Legislative") of the New Jersey State Constitution of 1947.To become a member of the Assembly, an individual must be at least 21 years old, must have resided in their district for one year and the state for two years, and must live in the represented district. To become a Senator, an individual must be 30 years old, must have lived in their district for two years and the state for four years, and again must live in the represented district.
The sitting Legislature is the 215th Legislature of the State of New Jersey. 
Currently, the Democrats are the majority party in both Houses. In the Senate there are 24 Democrats and 16 Republicans. There are 48 Democrats and 32 Republicans serving in the General Assembly.
The senate is the upper house in the New Jersey legislature. Currently, 40 people serve in the Senate for two years after redistricting, followed by four-year terms.
The general assembly is the lower house of the New Jersey legislature. Currently, 80 people are in the New Jersey legislature for two-year terms.

</doc>
<doc id="538490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538490" title="William Franklin">
William Franklin

William Franklin (1730 – November 1813) was an American soldier, attorney, and colonial administrator, the acknowledged illegitimate son of Benjamin Franklin. He was the last colonial Governor of New Jersey (1763–1776). Franklin was a steadfast Loyalist throughout the American Revolutionary War.
William Franklin was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was the illegitimate son of Benjamin Franklin, a leading figure in the city. His mother's identity is unknown.
In 1750, Ben told his own mother that William was nineteen years old, but this may have been an attempt to make the youth appear legitimate.
William was raised by Benjamin Franklin and Deborah Read. 
As a young man, William became engaged to Elizabeth Graeme, daughter of prominent Philadelphia physician Dr. Thomas Graeme and granddaughter of Pennsylvania's 14th Governor, Sir William Keith.
While in London, Franklin sired an illegitimate son, William Temple Franklin, who was born 22 February 1762. His mother has never been identified, and he was placed in foster care.
Later that year, Franklin married Elizabeth Downes on September 4, 1762 at St George's, Hanover Square in London.
William Franklin completed his law education in England.
In 1763, William Franklin was appointed as the Royal Governor of New Jersey, due to his father's influence with the British Prime Minister. He replaced Josiah Hardy, a merchant and colonial administrator. As governor, Franklin signed the charter for Queen's College, which would develop as Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="538491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538491" title="Middlesex County College">
Middlesex County College

Middlesex County College is a community college with its main campus located in Edison, New Jersey, United States.
The college was founded in 1964. It offers more than 700 courses in 100 different degree and certificate programs with 21 specially designed transfer programs. Its mission is to provide access to an affordable, quality education
Tuition for county residents is $103 per credit hour. Tuition for out of county residents is $206 per credit hour. Federal financial aid is available in the form of Pell grants, work study programs and direct loans. Students must complete their free application for FAFSA. The MCC Foundation offers over 100 scholarships for students attending the college.
Men’s sports include: Soccer, Basketball, Wrestling, Baseball, Golf, Track and field. Women sports include: Soccer, Softball, Basketball, Cross Country, Volleyball, Track and Field. The Physical Education Center has a swimming pool, basketball courts, racquetball courts, and a dance studio. There is a weight training room with treadmills and stairmasters, which are available for students, faculty, and college alumni.

</doc>
<doc id="538493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538493" title="Category:1890s in the United States">
Category:1890s in the United States


</doc>
<doc id="538494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538494" title="Carteret, New Jersey">
Carteret, New Jersey

Carteret is a borough in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the borough's population was 22,844, reflecting an increase of 2,135 (+10.3%) from the 20,709 counted in the 2000 Census, which had in turn increased by 1,684 (+8.9%) from the 19,025 counted in the 1990 Census.
According to the United States Census Bureau, Carteret had a total area of 5.000 square miles (12.950 km), including 4.418 square miles (11.442 km) of land and 0.582 square miles (1.509 km) of water (11.65%).
The Carteret School District serves students in pre-Kindergarten through twelfth grade. As of the 2011-12 school year, the district's five schools had an enrollment of 3,626 students and 268.0 classroom teachers
The government has a town council with 6 members and a mayor. They all are elected.
People who were born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with Carteret include:

</doc>
<doc id="538500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538500" title="King cobra">
King cobra

The king cobra ("Ophiophagus hannah"), or "hamadryad", is in the Elapidae family of snakes. It is the longest venomous snake in the world. An adult king cobra can grow up to , though most are less than 12 feet. 
The king cobra lives thoughout India and in some parts of the south and the east of Asia. It is known around the world for its dangerous venom. It mostly avoids humans. The king cobra lives up to 20 years.
The king cobra lives in thick forests, and likes areas dotted with lakes and streams.
It eats mostly snakes but sometimes lizards and rodents. After a large meal it may live months before eating again. 
The Indian grey mongoose is one of the few predators of the king cobra but may not attack them much.
The venom from a bite can be deadly. The snake can kill a man with a single bite. The mortality rate can be as high as 75% without antivenom.
There are two kinds of antivenom that can be used to help when someone is bitten. Bites do not happen often, snake handlers are most likely to be bitten.
Unlike many snakes the female king cobra is very good parent. It makes a mound as a nest for its eggs and protects them for 60-90 days until they hatch. It lays 20-40 eggs. The mother stays until the eggs begin to hatch and then leaves to find food for herself. Baby king cobras are and have venom as strong as adults.

</doc>
<doc id="538512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538512" title="Siemens C651">
Siemens C651

The Siemens C651 train are a type of rolling stock. They can be found on the North South Line and East West Line in Singapore.
The Siemens C651 began service on 20 September 1994. Refurbishments are planned between 2016 and 2018.
There are 19 trainsets with 114 cars in total.

</doc>
<doc id="538515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538515" title="Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station">
Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station

Choa Chu Kang MRT/LRT Station (NS4/BP1) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is the interchange station between the North South MRT Line and Bukit Panjang LRT Line. It is located in Choa Chu Kang.
The station was the first to provide an interchange between the MRT and the LRT. 
Previous: Botanic Gardens (NS3)<br>Next: Yew Tee (NS5)
Previous: N/A<br>Next: South View (BP2)

</doc>
<doc id="538517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538517" title="HarbourFront MRT Station">
HarbourFront MRT Station

HarbourFront Station (NE1/CC29) is an MRT Station in Singapore. 
It is an interchange station along the North East MRT Line and Circle MRT Line. It is the only double terminus in Singapore's MRT line. The station is located next to VivoCity and HarbourFront Centre.

</doc>
<doc id="538522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538522" title="Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station">
Dhoby Ghaut MRT Station

Dhoby Ghaut Station (NS24/NE6/CC1) is a Mass Rapid Transit station in Singapore. It is an interchange station along North South MRT Line, North East MRT Line and Circle Line.
Dhoby Ghaut is the first triple-line interchange station in Singapore. It is the third deepest MRT station (after Bras Basah then Promenade) in Singapore. The deepest point is at 28 metres below ground level. 
Previous: Somerset (NS23)<br>Next: City Hall (NS25/EW13)
Previous: Clarke Quay (NE5)<br>Next: Little India (NE7)
Previous: N/A<br>Next: Bras Basah (CC2)

</doc>
<doc id="538526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538526" title="Rameshwaram">
Rameshwaram

Rameshwaram is a coastal town in the Ramanathapuram district of Tamil Nadu state in India. It is located in a island named Pamban island, which is separated from Indian mainland by Pamban Channel.
Rameshwaram is one of the holiest shrines for Hindus. The populous Ramanathaswamy Temple is located here.The town has the 64 Holy Tirthas, of which 24 are important accoring to Skanda Purana.
The town covers an area of 53 km. The population of the town is 44,851 according to 2011 census. This town is the birth place of the 11th president of India, Dr.A.P.J.Abdul Kalam.
The island in which Rameshwaram located was hit by a cyclone in 1964, that washed away Dhanushkodi, a nearby town and made severe damage in Rameshwaram too.

</doc>
<doc id="538532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538532" title="Vaigai River">
Vaigai River

The Vaigai River is a river that starts flowing from Varusanadu Hills, Periyar plateau of the Western Ghats range. This river flows east towards Tamil Nadu. The Vaigai river produces the Vattaparai Falls. The city of Madurai lies on the banks of this river. The river empties into the Palk strait in the Ramanathapuram district of Tamil Nadu.
The Vaigai river flows for 256km (160mi). The area of the drainage basin of Vaigai is 7036 square kilometers.
The tributaries of Vaigai are Suruli River, Mullaiyaar River, Varaha River and Manjal River. The Kirudhumal River joins Vaigai river in Theni district. The water of Periyar river is diverted or turned to Vaigai.

</doc>
<doc id="538534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538534" title="Paulo Dybala">
Paulo Dybala

Paulo Dybala was born on the 15th of November 1993 who is an Argentinian football player who plays as a forward for Italian football team Juventus and the Argentina national team.
After beginning his career in Agentina with,in 2011,moved to Italian club Palermo in 2012. His performances in Serie A got him a transfer to Juventus in 2015.
Due to the creative style of play,pace, technique ,talent and eye for goal, he has been nicknamed  "La Joya."
His grandfather, Bolesław Dybała, was from a village in Poland.His family also had Italian origins through his maternal grandmother named Da Messa from the Province of Naples.

</doc>
<doc id="538537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538537" title="Cecelia Holland">
Cecelia Holland

Cecelia Holland is an American historical fiction novelist.
Holland was born December 31, 1943, in Henderson, Nevada. She grew up in Metuchen, New Jersey, where she started writing at age 12.

</doc>
<doc id="538538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538538" title="Prince François, Count of Thorigny">
Prince François, Count of Thorigny

Prince François of Monaco, Count of Thorigny (François Charles; 4 February 1726 – 9 December 1743) was a Monégasque prince and member of the House of Grimaldi. He was known by his title Count of Thorigny. 
Born in Paris. 
Born at the "Hôtel Matignon"" in Paris, he was the eighth child of the reigning Princess Louise Hippolyte of Monaco and her husband Prince Jacques I. His father was the Count of Thorigny but the title was given to François. His older brother Honoré III would later become the next Prince of Monacao when their father died in 1751. 
He died unmarried and childless 

</doc>
<doc id="538551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538551" title="Joel Weisman">
Joel Weisman

Joel D. Weisman (February 20, 1943 – July 18, 2009) was an American doctor who was one of the first to identify a pattern of illnesses that was ultimately diagnosed as AIDS in the United States. He later became an advocate for the development of treatments and prevention of the disease.
Weisman was born in Newark, New Jersey, on February 20, 1943. He attended the Kansas City College of Osteopathy (later known as the Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences, graduating in 1970 with a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO). He practiced medicine in his hometown of Carteret, New Jersey, for several years and ended his brief marriage by disclosing that he was gay.
He moved to Los Angeles and was hired by a doctor's office in North Hollywood. There, he started to see a number of patients in 1978 who had a series of unusual conditions, including younger men with shingles, a case of Kaposi's sarcoma, and several patients who had symptoms of what appeared to be, but was not, lymphoma.
Weisman referred two of these cases in 1981 to Michael S. Gottlieb, an immunologist at the UCLA Medical Center, who had a patient of his own with a similar pattern of symptoms. A report theyy jointly wrote published by the Centers for Disease Control in the June 5, 1981, issue of its "Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report", describing how their patients, "5 young men, all active homosexuals, were treated for biopsy-confirmed Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia at 3 different hospitals in Los Angeles, California" of which "[t]wo of the patients died" by the time of the original report. This notice has been recognized as the first published report marking "the official start" of the AIDS pandemic and as "the first report on AIDS in the medical literature".
In Weisman's obituary in the "Los Angeles Times", Gottlieb described him as "a very astute physician" who recognized "that something out of the ordinary was happening" by being "alert to unusual symptoms in his patients". Krim described how Weisman immediately knew that "he was observing something that was never seen before."
Weisman died at age 66 due to heart disease on July 18, 2009, at his home in the Westwood neighborhood of Los Angeles. He was survived by his domestic partner of 17 years, Bill Hutton, as well as by a daughter and granddaughter, a brother and two nieces. Timothy Bogue, his partner for 10 years, died of AIDS in 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="538552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538552" title="Dunellen, New Jersey">
Dunellen, New Jersey

Dunellen is a borough in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States.
Dunellen started in 1867. It grew around a railroad station. The station was originally called New Market station. It served the nearby community of that name in Piscataway.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the borough has a total area of 1.048 square miles (2.715 km). All of it is land. Dunellen is in the Raritan Valley, a line of communities in central New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="538554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538554" title="2016 Kumamoto earthquakes">
2016 Kumamoto earthquakes

The 2016 Kumamoto earthquakes happened on April 14−16, 2016 near Kumamoto Prefecture in southern Japan. A foreshock of magnitude 6.2 on the Richter scale happened on the evening of April 14 at 21:26 Japan Standard Time. The main earthquake happened at 1:25 am JST with a magnitude of 7.0 on April 16. 
A total of 48 people died in the two earthquakes. About 3,000 more were injured. There was severe damage in and around Kumamoto. Many structures including Kumamoto-Castle fell and some of them caught fire and infrastructures, especially water, electricity and gas supply are destructed. More than 44,000 people had to leave the area because of the disaster and most of them suffer hard living in shelters. 

</doc>
<doc id="538559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538559" title="Game &amp; Watch Gallery 4">
Game &amp; Watch Gallery 4

Game & Watch Gallery 4, known in Europe and Australia as "Game & Watch Gallery Advance", is the fifth game in the series in Europe and Australia and the fourth in North America. It was released for the Game Boy Advance in Europe on October 25, 2002, in the United States on October 28, 2002, and in Australia in 2002. It is the second Game & Watch Gallery game not to receive a Japanese release until 2016 via the Wii U's Virtual Console. It is also the first title in the Game & Watch Gallery series to credit TOSE as a co-developer, after the company had gone uncredited in the previous installments.
This game features Game & Watch games in two styles: Classic, which features faithful reproductions of the original games, and Modern, which gives the games a different visual style using characters from the Super Mario Bros. series. It features 11 games with both Modern and Classic modes, and nine games with only Classic mode. This game facilitates multiplayer for Boxing and Donkey Kong 3.
Also included are several unlockable games that can only be played in Classic mode:

</doc>
<doc id="538563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538563" title="Metuchen, New Jersey">
Metuchen, New Jersey

Metuchen ( ) is a borough in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States
Metuchen was created by the New Jersey Legislature on March 20, 1900. The land was part of Raritan Township (now known as Edison).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the borough had a total area of 2.766 square miles (7.166 km). That included 2.764 square miles (7.160 km) of land and 0.002 square miles (0.006 km) of water (0.09%).

</doc>
<doc id="538564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538564" title="Bukit Panjang LRT Line">
Bukit Panjang LRT Line

Bukit Panjang LRT Line is an LRT station Singapore.
The line takes about 28 minutes for the full loop. This route starts at the Choa Chu Kang and travels around the Bukit Panjang area.
This line uses 19 Bombardier Innovia APM 100 C801 vehicles.
BP1: Choa Chu Kang, change for North South Line
BP2: South View
BP3: Keat Hong
BP4: Teck Whye
BP5: Phoenix
BP6: Bukit Panjang, Change for Downtown Line
BP7: Petir
BP8: Pending
BP9: Bangkit
BP10: Fajar
BP11: Segar
BP12: Jelapang
BP13: Senja
BP14: Ten Mile Junction, Service C Terminus
There are three services along this line.

</doc>
<doc id="538577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538577" title="Prince Antoine, Marquis of Baux">
Prince Antoine, Marquis of Baux

Prince Antoine of Monaco, Marquis of Baux (16 December 1717 – 4 February 1718), was a Monégasque prince and member of the House of Grimaldi. He was known as the Marquis of Baux as the hier to the throne of Monaco. He was also the and Count of Matignon. He died before succeeding his mother. 
Born in Monaco, he was the eldest son of the then-reigning Princess Louise Hippolyte of Monaco and her husband, Jacques I. He was given the title of Marquis of Baux, the traditional title for an heir to the Monégasque throne. 

</doc>
<doc id="538579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538579" title="Category:21st century in Italy">
Category:21st century in Italy


</doc>
<doc id="538583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538583" title="Category:Juventus F.C.">
Category:Juventus F.C.


</doc>
<doc id="538584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538584" title="Category:19th century establishments in Europe">
Category:19th century establishments in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538585" title="Category:Establishments in Europe">
Category:Establishments in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="538593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538593" title="Ten Mile Junction LRT Station">
Ten Mile Junction LRT Station

Ten Mile Junction LRT Station (BP14) is an LRT station Singapore. It is along the Bukit Panjang LRT Line.
Services are provided at a lower frequency than other LRT stations. Trains only arrive every 20 minutes. 
Formerly the code was: A14 (1999 - 2001)
Previous: Bukit Panjang (BP6/DT1)<br>Next: N/A

</doc>
<doc id="538594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538594" title="Paya Lebar MRT Station">
Paya Lebar MRT Station

Paya Lebar Station (EW8/CC9) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station where passengers can change from the East West MRT Line to the underground Circle MRT Line.
It is named after the Paya Lebar Road, not the area called Paya Lebar. It is in the Geylang district.
Previous: Eunos (EW7)<br>Next: Aljunied (EW9)
Previous: Dakota (CC8)<br>Next: MacPherson (CC10/DT26)

</doc>
<doc id="538595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538595" title="Petitioner">
Petitioner

A petitioner is a very specific legal term. It is the person who presents a formal legal petition to a court or a legislature that requests a certain action be taken. A petitioner is also the person who files a motion or an appeal to a higher court. A party who petitions the Supreme Court to review a case is known as either the petitioner or the appellant. The person or entity (such as a corporation or government) who opposes the petition is called a respondent. In some cases a third party, an "amicus curiae" (friend of the court), may be heard.
In the case of an appeal, the petitioner is usually the party who lost in a lower court. This can be either the plaintiff or the defendant who files the petition to the higher court for judicial review. If the petition is granted, the petitioner files an appellate brief giving the legal arguments for filing the appeal. The respondent is given a short period of time to respond to the brief with arguments for their side of the case and to refute any arguments made by the petitioner. In some jurisdictions, the petitioner is allowed to file a short reply. In all three cases, arguments must be based on the trial record which includes the Transcripts of testimony and evidence from the original trial.
In civil law the person who files the case against another person is called the petitioner or plaintiff. In a divorce this is the party who files or starts the action to legally end the marriage. 

</doc>
<doc id="538610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538610" title="Steven Universe episodes">
Steven Universe episodes

"Steven Universe" is an American animated television series created by Rebecca Sugar for Cartoon Network. The series revolves around the eponymous Steven Universe (voiced by Zach Callison), who protects his hometown of Beach City as part of the Crystal Gems, alongside Garnet (voiced by Estelle), Amethyst (voiced by Michaela Dietz), and Pearl (voiced by Deedee Magno).
<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>
The following lists are ordered based on the list on official website of the series, which reflects the intended watching order of the creators. While similar to the original broadcast order, three episodes from the first season were not broadcast until the second season.

</doc>
<doc id="538614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538614" title="Subhash Chandra Bose">
Subhash Chandra Bose

Subhash Chandra Bose is one of the Indian freedom fighters. His patriotism made him a super hero in India.He was also renowned as Netaji. He was the President of Indian National Congress in 1938 to 1939. He attempted to get rid of British rule in India during World War II with the help of Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan. Netaji's attempt went in failure. He was also recognised as the person who founded the Azad Hind Army or Indian National Army with the help of Japan in 1942.
Subhash Chandra Bose born in 23 January 1897 in Cuttack and died in a plane crash in Taiwan in 1945. But many Indian's believed that he didn't die that time. The Government of West Bengal submitted many evidence that he was alive after the plane crash too.

</doc>
<doc id="538616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538616" title="Category:Screenplays by Woody Allen">
Category:Screenplays by Woody Allen


</doc>
<doc id="538618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538618" title="Category:Woody Allen">
Category:Woody Allen


</doc>
<doc id="538620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538620" title="Princess Charlotte of Monaco">
Princess Charlotte of Monaco

Princess Charlotte of Monaco (Charlotte Thérèse Nathalie; 19 March 1719 – circa 1790), was a Monégasque princess. Charlotte never married and as a result became a nun at a convent in Paris. 
Born in Paris, she was the eldest daughter of Princess Louise Hippolyte of Monaco and her husband Prince Jacques I. Styled as "Mademoiselle de Monaco"", she was known as "either" Charlotte or Thérèse Nathalie. . Never marrying, she eventually took religious vows and became a nun at the Convent of Visitation in Paris on 21 January 1738. 
She remained unmarried, and died childless. She was once engaged to Frédéric Jules de La Tour d'Auvergne, "Prince of Auvergne". Yet, this proposed marriage did not come to be and before she was much older the engagement was broken off and Charlotte went to a convent to begin her education. She considered becoming a nun while there, wrestled with the decision but did finally take her vows as a sister of the Order of the Visitation. She did leave the convent a number of times to visit her family

</doc>
<doc id="538623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538623" title="Category:Movies directed by Spike Lee">
Category:Movies directed by Spike Lee


</doc>
<doc id="538624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538624" title="Category:Screenplays by Spike Lee">
Category:Screenplays by Spike Lee


</doc>
<doc id="538625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538625" title="Category:Spike Lee">
Category:Spike Lee


</doc>
<doc id="538636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538636" title="2016 Ecuador earthquake">
2016 Ecuador earthquake

On April 16, 2016, a 7.8 magnitude struck Ecuador at 18:58 local time. It was centered about 17 miles from the town of Muisne and about 110 miles from the capital Quito. There was widespread damage, so that most infrastructures are destroyed. Structures hundreds of miles from the epicenter collapsed.
Over 272 people died. Over 2,500 people were injured.
President Rafael Correa declared a state of emergency after the earthquake.

</doc>
<doc id="538643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538643" title="Princess Sofia, Duchess of Värmland">
Princess Sofia, Duchess of Värmland

Princess Sofia of Sweden, Duchess of Värmland (born Sofia Kristina Hellqvist on 6 December 1984) is the wife of Prince Carl Philip, Duke of Värmland. She began dating Prince Carl Philip in 2010. She has also been a glamour model and reality television contestant. Hellqvist has appeared on the reality show "Paradise Hotel".

</doc>
<doc id="538659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538659" title="Seymouria">
Seymouria

Seymouria was an amphibian tetrapod from the early Permian of North America and Europe, about 280 to 270 million years ago (mya). It was small, only 2 ft (60 cm) long. 
As an adult animal, "Seymouria" was well adapted to life on land, with many reptilian features. It was for quite a long time thought to be a primitive reptile. However, it is now known that "its early life stages were in water". Apparently, it is an amphibian whose adult stage was adapted for life in a dry climate.
The discovery of its amphibian nature was a considerable surprise.
The adult skeletons were first found in the red beds of Texas and Oklahoma. These beds were laid down in the huge delta complex of a large river flowing towards a coast, much like the Mississippi of today. The species found in Germany and New Mexico, "Seymouria sanjuanensis", had massive legs and held its body well off the ground. This shows an "effective adaptation to terrrestrial locomotion".
A simplified life cycle might be: eggs laid in water, larval stages in water, young animal with limbs climbs out and instinctively moves to higher ground. All its life lived as a carnivore on dry land, returning to water occasionally to drink and to breed. The adults would be able to operate in a fairly dry climate.

</doc>
<doc id="538665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538665" title="Karaikal">
Karaikal

Karaikal is a port city in the south-eastern coast of India. It is also a municipality and headquarters of Karaikal district. The French Government got control over Karaikal in 1674 and ruled it for over 280 years until the Pondicherry independence in 1954.
After the independence, Karaikal was also joined with Yanam, Mahe,and Pondicherry forming the Puducherry Union territory. Karaikal city and other surrounding parts like Tirumalairayanpattinam, Thirunallar, Nedungadu, Kottucherry, Neravy, Varichikudy etc forms the Karaikal district. This district divides the Nagapattinam district into two. This makes Nagapattinam district as the only district to be divided into two in India.
The rivers of Arasalar River, Virasolanar River, Tirumalairajanar River, Vikramanar River and tributary rivers of Arasalar River flows into the sea here in Karaikal port city.
Karaikal is situated in the Kaveri river's delta region. Therefore Karaikal land is rich in Alluviam, which makes it fertile land.
Karaikal is the place where Karaikal Ammaiyar, one of the 63 nayanmars born and lived. She is one of the renowned saint, who showed her devotion to Lord Shiva. She was also known as the mother of southern music.
Karaikal has many famous temples which are very famous like the Karaikal Ammaiyar Temple. The grand and famous festival of Mangani festival is celebrated in Karaikal. The other temples are Kailasanathar Kovil, Sri Nithyakalyana Perumal temple etc.

</doc>
<doc id="538667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538667" title="Category:Screenplays by writer">
Category:Screenplays by writer


</doc>
<doc id="538677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538677" title="Melksham">
Melksham

Melksham () is a medium-sized English town, on the River Avon in the county of Wiltshire. It is east of the city of Bath and south of Chippenham. Melksham is west of Devizes and north of Warminster on the A350 national route. 
The name is thought to come from "meolc", the Old English word for milk, and "ham", a village. On John Speed's map of Wiltshire (1611), the name is spelt both Melkesam (for the hundred) and Milsham (for the town itself). There are nine schools in Melksham. Melksham also has a very popular football team in a small league. The population of Melksham in 2014 was estimated to be 19,344.

</doc>
<doc id="538686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538686" title="Nan Chiau High School">
Nan Chiau High School

Nan Chiau High School is a co-educational secondary school in Singapore. It is one of the 11 schools in Singapore that offer the Special Assistance Plan (SAP) Special/Express stream.
The school is affiliated to Singapore Hokkien Huay Kuan (also known as the Singapore Hokkien Association).
The school motto is Sincerity & Perseverance (诚、毅). It is set after the philosophy of its founder, Mr Tan Kah Kee.
Nan Chiau High School keeps its original song. Nan Chiau Primary School, which was once part of it, has the same school song.  
Nan Chiau High's school uniform is closely linked to its heritage. 
Boys wear white shirts with red words “南僑” and navy blue pants. Girls wear white blouses with red words “南僑” and with navy blue pleated skirts. A dark red tie is worn at important events and assemblies.
Nan Chiau High School 4-year Express course which leads up to the O Level exams
"Notes: "
Science
Language & Literature
Humanities
Arts & Aesthetics

</doc>
<doc id="538692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538692" title="Promenade MRT Station">
Promenade MRT Station

Promenade Station (CC4/DT15) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an underground interchange station along Circle MRT Line and Downtown MRT Line. It is the deepest station in Singapore at 43 meters below ground. The deepest platform is at Basement 7.
Previous: Esplanade (CC3)<br>Next: Nicoll Highway (CC5) or Bayfront (CE1/DT16)
Previous: Bugis (DT14/EW12)<br>Next: Bayfront (DT16/CE1)
As of 27 December 2015, Downtown Line has updated.

</doc>
<doc id="538695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538695" title="Jurong East MRT Station">
Jurong East MRT Station

Jurong East Station (NS1/EW24) is an MRT in Singapore. It is an interchange station along North South MRT Line and East West MRT Line. The station is a terminus for the North South MRT Line.
Formerly the Code was: W9 (1988 - 2001)
Previous: Clementi (EW23)<br>Next: Chinese Garden (EW25)
Previous: N/A<br>Next: Bukit Batok (NS2)

</doc>
<doc id="538720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538720" title="Maurya Empire">
Maurya Empire

Maurya Empire is the first large empire of India. The empire was founded in 322 BC by Chandragupta Maurya. 
Chandragupta Maurya established the Maurya empire by overthrowing the Nanda dynasty and expanded the empire with the help of Chanakya. By 316 BC , the Maurya empire fully occupied North-Western parts of India, defeating and conquering the governors left by Alexander the Great. Chandragupta Maurya defeated Seleucus I Nicator and gained the territories beyond Indus River.
After Chandragupta Maurya, his son Bindusara started to rule from 298 BC. He was called as "Amitraghata", the sanskrit word telling that Bindusara is the "slayer of enemies". He conquered the southern parts of India. After his death, only Kalinga (modern Orissa) and parts of Tamil Nadu were left unconquered.
King Ashoka, son of Bindusara, became the emperor of Mauryan Empire in 268 BC. He is one of the greatest emperor of the Indian subcontinent. Ashoka conquered Kalinga in the violent and bloody war, which is known as the Kalinga War. This is the only war fought by King Ashoka. The casualities are more than 200,000. The region of Kalinga was destroyed and looked bloodshed. This changed the mind of Ashoka. He devoted the rest of his life to 'ahimsa' and 'dharma-vijaya'. He became a Buddhist after this war.King Ashoka made many Rock edicts and Stupas in his empire. The present emblem of India was taken from one of his rock pillars. He was commonly called as Ashoka the Great.
After his death in 232 BC, the empire started to decline. The empire lasted just fifty years after his death. Brihadratha Maurya, the last Mauryan emperor was killed by his general Pushyamitra Sunga, who founded the Sunga Empire in 185 BC.

</doc>
<doc id="538725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538725" title="South River, New Jersey">
South River, New Jersey

South River is a borough in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States.
At the 2010 United States Census, there were 16,008 people, 5,652 households, and 4,019 families residing in the borough.
South River's largest incoming immigrant population are Asian's, Mexican's and Brazilian populations.
South River has become a center for Belarusian Americans in the postwar-period. The immigrants reestablished the Belarusian Orthodox parish of St. Eufrasinnia, that previously existed in Germany. In 1953 a Belarusian cemetery was opened, that houses also Radasłaŭ Astroŭski.
The town government council has a Mayor and a Borough Council. It has 6 members that serve three-year terms. Two members are up for election each year. 
South River is located in the 12th Congressional District
The South_River_Public_Schools serve students in Kindergarten through Twelfth_grade.
As of the 2011-12 school year, the district's four schools had a total enrollment of 2,305 students and 163 classroom teachers 
The borough had a total of of roads were maintained by the municipality. are maintained by Middlesex County.
The mains roads that travel through are CR 535 and CR 527. Route 18 passes just west of the borough, which provides access to the New_Jersey_Turnpike (Interstate 95).
New Jersey Transit bus service is provided on the 811 and 815 routes.

</doc>
<doc id="538763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538763" title="Russell Westbrook">
Russell Westbrook

Russell Westbrook Jr. (born November 12, 1988) is an American professional basketball player for the Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Westbrook played college basketball for the UCLA Bruins. Westbrook is the point guard and stands .

</doc>
<doc id="538769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538769" title="Grand Theft Auto VI">
Grand Theft Auto VI

Grand Theft Auto VI is a confirmed video game in the Grand Theft Auto Series (Rockstar Games), set to be released sometime between 2016-2020. The game has been predicted to feature one of the following locations in its map: The entire United States, Bogota (Capital of Columbia), Las Vegas Nevada, or the previous Grand Theft Auto games' maps combined into one enormous setting. Rumors have it that the game's story mode may feature a female protagonist. Actors who are rumored to have been cast as voices for the game include Eva Mendes and Ryan Gosling.

</doc>
<doc id="538805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538805" title="Lyubomir Ivanov">
Lyubomir Ivanov

Lubomir Lalov Ivanov is a Bulgarian mathematician, geographer, linguist and politician.
Chairman of the "Mathematical Logic" section at the Institute of Mathematics and Informatics of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (1990-2011). Chairman of the Bulgarian Antarctic Place-names Commission since 1994, and national representative to the International Committee on Antarctic Geographic Information. President of the Manfred Wörner Foundation since 1994. Chairman of the Atlantic Club in Bulgaria (2001–2009). 
Lyubomir Ivanov was born on 7 October 1952 in Sofia. He was an activist of the independent association "Ecoglasnost" in 1989. Author of "Charter '89 for the preservation of Bulgarian natural heritage". Co-founder of the association "Wilderness Fund" and the Green Party, 1989. Participant in the National Round Table, 1990. Member of the National Coordination Council of the Union of Democratic Forces (1990-1991). Member of the VII Grand National Assembly. He authored scientific works in the field of mathematics, linguistics and toponymy, which have been applied in particular in designing the Streamlined System for the Romanization of Bulgarian. Ivanov suggests using his approach to Cyrillic transliteration also for other alphabets, notably Russian. Participant in several Antarctic expeditions and author of the first Bulgarian topographic map of Antarctica. Leader of the topographic survey Tangra 2004/05, noted by Discovery Channel as a timeline event in Antarctic exploration.
In 1987 he was awarded the prize "Nikola Obreshkov" – the highest national award for achievements in mathematics.

</doc>
<doc id="538822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538822" title="Doug Harvey">
Doug Harvey

Douglas Norman Harvey (December 19, 1924 – December 26, 1989) was a Canadian professional hockey player. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) from 1947 until 1964, and from 1966 until 1969 and is widely regarded as one of the greatest defencemen ever to play the game. He won the James Norris Memorial Trophy as the league's top defenceman on seven occasions.

</doc>
<doc id="538830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538830" title="Alissa Rubin">
Alissa Rubin

Alissa Rubin is an American journalist who writes about war. She is the bureau chief for "The New York Times" in Paris. In 2016 she received a Pulitzer Prize for her stories about women in Afghanistan. 
Rubin worked for "The Congressional Quarterly", "The Wichita Eagle", and "The American Lawyer" magazine. 
In 1997, Rubin went to work at "The Los Angeles Times", where she wrote about Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans.
In 2007 she went to work for the "The New York Times", where she wrote about Iraq and France. She worked in the Baghdad bureau as a journalist, and then she became chief. In 2009, she became chief of the bureau in Kabul, Afghanistan.

</doc>
<doc id="538831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538831" title="Category:Archaeological sites in France">
Category:Archaeological sites in France


</doc>
<doc id="538834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538834" title="Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 117">
Wikipedia:Simple talk/Archive 117

I just made a Simple page for "Captain Forever" and wanted to know if I should describe some concepts of the game in laymans terms, or the terms that the games uses. In this case "Captain Forever" uses "Modules" to describe the parts you can use in the game, but I opted for parts. Should I be using the game's terminology or something more easily understood? (New to Wikipedia, sorry in advance) It can be found here. - 
One thing that editors who are not logged in can do on the Simple English Wikipedia but not on the regular English Wikipedia is make new pages. I have noticed that many new pages made by these users had to be deleted as they have little or no useful content. Since only a few users are able to delete pages compared to reverting edits, I'm wondering whether it's time to stop this from happening by banning unregistered users from creating pages on the wiki - if you get what I mean. Cheers, () 20:50, 11 April 2016 (UTC)
When you bring a page from another Wikipedia, please link it in Wikidata to the original page. You don't have to go to Wikidata to do this. I did a write up on how to do it from here. The write-up is at . Feel free to ask if you have any questions about it. Thanks! -- () 03:35, 17 April 2016 (UTC)
Just a heads up, shortly after the maintenance window ended, an issue with the MediaWiki job queue led to edits completely dropping off Recent Changes. Affected diff IDs are 5375922 to 5375941, a window approximately 30 minutes long. Since the recent changes IRC feed (irc.wikimedia.org) was also down, bots which relied on the RC feed were not able to perform any task, most significantly .
I have gone through every diff in that window and reverted any vandalism accordingly. Anyone interested in a closer look can use Special:Diff/<diff number>.     15:37, 19 April 2016 (UTC)
Would it be possible to protect the talk page for the main page so those who would not know how to use it could not disrupt it like they've been doing recently? Thanks, () 22:21, 21 April 2016 (UTC)
There is a problem with the QD template when three or more reasons are given for QD. Assuming my "wait" request is honored at Fashionably Late (album), an example of the problem can be seen there. The person who tagged the article for QD selected three criteria (A1, A4, and G1). When editors add the QD template for a single reason, the usual wording is something to the effect of The problem is when three or more criteria are selected as the reason for QD. In that case, one of the criteria is selected, and the message reads like this: I believe that the template should be edited to prevent this behavior, but I'm not sure what is causing it.  | |   11:22, 4 May 2016 (UTC)
The Wikiproject page said to post news of the creation of a wikiproject page, so here it is:
I made the page. Any tips would be appreciated, since this is my first wikiprojects page. -- () 05:16, 8 May 2016 (UTC)
The way we word our policy on granting rollback is inconsistent between and :
I think it is a bad idea to mention the same kind of point on two different pages, worse still if both allow for the possibility of contradiction, as has been pointed out in a recent request. Considering the precedent that has been established in , , , and , I would like to propose the following changes:
--    02:59, 9 May 2016 (UTC)
How are "child unfriendly" topics handled on EN.simplewiki? For example topics related to violence and sexual themes? Are there particular rules/policies or unofficial practices?
While editing our article for Boise, Idaho, I added a section for the origin of the name. Another editor changed the words "Origin of name" to the word "Etymology". Of course, I realize that "etymology" means "the study of the origin and historical development of a word." The question for the community is whether this term is simple enough for Simple English Wikipedia? The words "name" and "word" appear on the , and the word "origin" appears in the expanded version of the word list. So "Origin of name" or "Origin of word" are both perfectly simple section headers. "Etymology" is not on any simple word list, so I don't think we can call it a simple term. In other sections, we prefer to use "other websites" instead of "external links", and we have other conventions where we differ from English Wikipedia and other Wikipedia projects in order to make our articles easier to read for English learners. I am proposing that we add "etymology" to the list of words that should be simplified when used as a section header, and that this should be reflected in our version of .  | |   17:44, 9 May 2016 (UTC)
""
"Djibouti" is a [country] on the eastern coast of Africa. Djibouti gained its independence on June 27, 1977. 
but: Infobox country
END -- () 14:40, 12 May 2016 (UTC)
I've created a Simple English version of , and two task forces, one for dealing with Solar System related articles and one for Astronomical objects. Thoughts? 20:46, 15 May 2016 (UTC)
Hello everyone. 
This is a heads-up about a change which has just : "Add the "welcome" dialog (with button to switch) to the wikitext editor".
In a nutshell, later this week this will provide a one-time "Welcome" message in the wikitext editor which explains that anyone can edit, and every improvement helps. The user can then start editing in the wikitext editor right away, or switch to the visual editor. 
If you want to learn more, please see https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/T133800; if you have feedback or think you need to report a bug with the dialog, you can post in that task (or at mediawiki.org if you prefer). 
Thanks for your attention and happy editing, 16:52, 16 May 2016 (UTC)
Yes, I am back. 00:50, 16 May 2016 (UTC)
P.S. I also need a refresher.
I am trying to make a page creator for my user page to make it easier for creating sandbox pages. However, I am having trouble. It is at the bottom, and it is too short. I want to make it fit the whole page. Could someone help me?
P.S. I borrowed the code from the Article Wizard Creator. ""
I deleted the example because it might be disrupting the content. 22:21, 17 May 2016 (UTC)
Autopatrolled not created. () 03:50, 18 May 2016 (UTC)
I wonder if one or two colleagues might have a look at Hebrew calendar#Details. I just added this section, and wouldn't mind a second opinion on factors related to Simple English. Thanks. () 15:35, 20 May 2016 (UTC)
I think that singles should be categorised by year they were released, as well as the year the song was released, which is often different. () 09:22, 23 May 2016 (UTC)
The history for my contributions to Wikipedia over the years has been deleted. I just noticed this when I looked at the Eddie Hurley page, one that I had created a few years ago, and there is no mention of me having been associated with the page or any other. What's going on with this? 
When a page is tagged (for example, ), and an editor fixes the problem, is that same editor allowed to remove the tag? I thought the answer was no, because for example, an editor might think they simplified a page that other editors still find complex. So I don't tend to remove tags on pages I try to fix. But the result seems to be that a lot of those pages stay in the maintenance categories with the tags on, for example, still saying when there are refs in the article. Guidance? Thanks. () 21:25, 28 May 2016 (UTC)
Currently, returns warnings of slightly different wording, depending on whether a parameter is passed to it (title of vandalized article). Most user warnings follow the "Twinkle workflow" of clicking on the user talk link (which Twinkle automatically rewrites to pass on the article title) on the "rollback successful" page, so the discrepancy was seldom noticed. Shall we standardize it to say "trying things out"?     09:54, 30 May 2016 (UTC)
As a result of a recent RfD discussion, I decided to open a direct discussion on this topic at . The community's comments are requested and will be most welcome. () 22:32, 2 June 2016 (UTC)
When I edited an article (Montenegro), there was a rectangle on the meta-page. It had a notch apparently referring to a warning triangle. Inside the rectangle, there was a short sentence saying something like "you have one message." When I clicked on the rectangle and then on the triangle, I didn't see a message. What is it all about? Another thing I saw for the first time was a pulsing blue circle. What is that? I think a totally unexplained icon like that is a bad idea. () 12:14, 3 June 2016 (UTC)
I noticed a glitch in the way fractions are displayed on Electric current: V=I/R. The glitch occurs on English wiki version as well. () 17:02, 3 June 2016 (UTC)
See the talk page for details. () 16:16, 8 June 2016 (UTC)
Hello, after six weeks of community discussion about Wikipedia to the Moon, there are now 10 different proposals for content for the mission. Starting today, , and decide what we will work on: a Wikipedia canon, different lists, the Moon in 300 languages, an astronomy editathon, featured articles, articles about technology, endangered things, or DNA-related topics. You can even vote against community involvement. Voting is open until 24 June. Sorry that this message is again in English only, but we are using village pumps to reach as many communities as possible, so that everyone knows they can vote. Best, 15:31, 10 June 2016 (UTC)
I just made an edit to the article on Sir Ian Percival. When I made the edit it brought up those funny little letters you have to write in the box to prove you are not a robot. The word it displayed was "bernvoter". I do not believe it is appropriate that political messages should be broadcast through these validation procedures, it damages wikipedia's credibility and raises questions about the judgment of the staff or managers in question who wrote the code.
I've saved a screenshot of the word in question if that will help
It has a typo. I'd do it myself but my new account hasn't been autoconfirmed yet. () 22:10, 11 June 2016 (UTC)
Template isn't working right in some cases. I've see it in several articles. An example is Luxurious, where all the uses of the template for "Billboard"-related chart info are giving the message "ERROR: Billboard chart was invoked without providing an artist id. Artist id is a mandatory field for this call". I looked at the enwiki copy of the template and saw that the template there said "artist id" is no longer required.
It looks like our copy of the template might just need updating. I tried, but wasn't sure enough of what I was doing to proceed with it. We can't just do a straight copy of the enwiki version, because our version has been customized, at least in some of the categories that are used. Can someone take a look and see if you can figure out what to do? Thanks. -- () 04:55, 12 June 2016 (UTC)
Hello everyone. Just a reminder that the school year is wrapping up, and that means that unconstructive editors will be all over. Be prepared for home IPs to make bad edits. Just a reminder :) () 23:38, 9 June 2016 (UTC)
Thanks for reminding!–– "" 09:37, 14 June 2016 (UTC)
Hi~ I want to make a change to a template, but I don't want to break anything, so I'm asking here first.
Article Solifugae shows error:
If I remove "Late" from "Late Carboniferous", it works.
I think uses info from , and a line containing "late carboniferous" was removed from that last template in edit , so now it only contains "carboniferous". I don't know why it was removed, and I'm not familiar with the topic.
However, "late carboniferous" is in the , where the article works fine. Also, changing that line back works in "preview", but I'm not sure about other articles, etc.
So, my question is: Can I change that line on the Simple template, or will it break things?
Thanks for any advice! () 01:40, 15 June 2016 (UTC)
I signed into my old account to fix something elsewhere, and when I came back here, I was still in my old account. I thanked someone for an edit, realized that, and went into my new account again. When I tried to thank for the second time, instead of the javascript pop-up, I got the regular old window. What might be causing this? () 04:10, 17 June 2016 (UTC)
A discussion is currently ongoing at . It would be nice if more people could weigh in on this.     03:30, 19 June 2016 (UTC)
HELLO! Im "" but now made a cleanstart under this new username. One of my deleted article "Gadri", was deleted by due to lack of notibility, now i want to put more references to that article, also to put 1 external link. I want my article "Gadri" back. Please help.08:50, 23 June 2016 (UTC)
Hi, all. Just a note: although it looks like the UK has voted to leave the EU, the actual separation doesn't happen immediately. It will take time for planning and implementation. Feel free to make edits talking about the result of the vote, but please don't make edits saying that the separation is complete until it really happens.
We've already had at least one bad edit that was apparently due to a misunderstanding of the vote. An edit took the UK out of a list of countries in Europe. Europe and the European Union are two different things. The UK may leave the EU, but it can't leave Europe.
To those of you who already understood this, thank you for bearing with me. -- () 09:26, 24 June 2016 (UTC)
Hi all,
I have been a regular user and contributor to Wikipedia, though I agree that due to work-related preoccupations I am not abreast with all the technical terminology here. However, as I have read and learnt and contributed quite a bit at Wikipedia.
I have been very happy with the way the community Wikipedia helps and contribute and help each other learn. However, as with all real places, this place also has few moderators who knows only to push and not read.
One such ardent moderator I had to deal with is regarding India Trade Promotion Organisation article. I had nominated the article for and had received positive feedback from [few].
The story started with [] few changes in the India Trade Promotion Organisation article which I happily did and requested to review again. started pronouncing random objections which were far from fact. For instance, citations were questioned without reading them (they were genuine and verifiable web-links) and writing uncilised language at my [page].
I [again] to review the article in good faith. but met with [abuse]
I again reiterate that Wikipedia is a shared space for knowledge and if I am willing to contribute and willing to provide valid verifiable sources, why should I be bullied by such moderators like ? The page India Trade Promotion Organisation is already having huge reliable, nuetral and verifiable content with about 50 citations. 
Hello, I wanted to give a heads up about an upcoming feature for this wiki which you may seen already in the . has been available as a beta-feature on all Wikimedia wikis since 2014. With compact language links enabled, users are shown a much shorter list of languages on the interlanguage link section of an article (see image). This will be enabled as a feature in the coming week for all users, which can be turned on or off using a preference setting. We look forward to your feedback and please do let us know if you have any questions or concern. Details about Compact Language Links can be read in the . Thanks. On behalf of the Wikimedia Language team: -- () 13:02, 1 July 2016 (UTC)
Dear users of the simple English Wikipedia, 
I have a little question for you. As you know (maybe) there is Vikidia, a kind of Wikipedia for and by childern. I two years ago the English Vikidia is created. I'm working on this Vikidia to make it populair in several English-speaking countries. But I need help. There's a lot that has to be done. We have to make portals for users, readers, parents and teachers with information about Vikidia, I need people who can write articles and explain to users how everything works. I ask the Simple English Wikipedia community to help. 
There is also an advantage for the Simple English Wikipedia. A lot of child users can change from wiki if the feel to old for Vikidia. My meaning was not to make advertisement. I hope some users will help, here's a link: en.vikidia.org. Yours sincerely, () 15:31, 2 July 2016 (UTC)
I brought this up on the redirect's a few days ago, but since it is a redirect, my talk page edit probably has been buried... please weigh in on regarding a proposed rename!     16:20, 2 July 2016 (UTC)
 , 17:20, 3 July 2016 (UTC)
I'm not seeing the things that Twinkle usually gives me, so I'm assuming it's not working for some reason. If you need to leave warning messages while it's down (yes, that's possible!), many of the templates needed are listed at . You might want to check the documentation for an individual template to make sure you include all necessary parameters. -- () 19:15, 6 July 2016 (UTC)
 has been available as a beta-feature on all Wikimedia wikis since 2014. With compact language links enabled, users are shown a much shorter list of languages on the interlanguage link section of an article (see image). Based on several factors, this shorter list of languages is expected to be more relevant for them and valuable for finding similar content in a language known to them. More information about compact language links can be found in .
From today onwards, compact language links has been enabled as the default listing of interlanguage links on this wiki. However, using the button at the bottom, you will be able to see a longer list of all the languages the article has been written in. The setting for this compact list can be changed by using the checkbox under "User Preferences -> Appearance -> Languages"
The compact language links feature has been tested extensively by the Wikimedia Language team, which developed it. However, in case there are any problems or other feedback please let us know on the . It is to be noted that on some wikis the presence of an existing older gadget that was used for a similar purpose may cause an interference for compact language list. We would like to bring this to the attention of the admins of this wiki. Full details are on . Thank you. On behalf of the Wikimedia Language team:-- () 03:10, 8 July 2016 (UTC)
I don't think our previous discussion on this was resolved, so I have copied it from the archive to . Please continue to comment there. Since my interpretation of the guideline (it's a guideline, not a policy) was apparently considered so far off that another editor saw fit to reverse a decision I made on one request, I don't plan to process any more requests until this issue is resolved. -- () 06:13, 10 July 2016 (UTC)
Here are some easy things that would improve a lot of our articles:
If you have questions on any of this, feel free to ask. -- () 05:43, 13 July 2016 (UTC)
I've started a discussion . Feel free to comment. -- () 06:05, 13 July 2016 (UTC)
Could someone please undelete my user page?
Hi there!
I introduced on the Achraf Baznani page some information about plagiarism "with reliable references". An IP deleted those infos.
I usually work on WP:fr, and we had lots of problems with the same pages... Could someone check it? I'm not very comfortable with the english wikisyntax (it took me nearly half an hour to add two lines and their reference^^).
Best regards,<br> 03:51, 22 July 2016 (UTC)
Per , specific Unicode fraction characters are discouraged from use on-wiki. Due to the limited choices of "special" fraction characters available, it also leads to issues with one article potentially containing differing renderings of fractions:
To keep in line with the MOS, I propose that these special characters:
be removed from (and substituted with a link to insert their template equivalents) so that they don't appear in the special character palette below the wikicode editor.     04:08, 12 July 2016 (UTC)
--    02:47, 13 July 2016 (UTC)
This discussion was moved in its entirety to at 16:23, 21 August 2016 (UTC). ()
I think that if a page has been deleted, you must be autoconfirmed to recreate it, enforced by an abuse filter.
 () 18:04, 9 August 2016 (UTC)
An editor has recently (twice) removed the words from . The content has (twice) been restored. In an effort to ensure that changes to guidelines and policies and the like have broad community support, I'm asking for a community discussion whether we want this wording in the guideline essay. Your comments below (either for or against or for something different) would be appreciated.  | |   08:55, 15 August 2016 (UTC)
This page needs attention. The large majority of the edits to the page were done by two accounts, who also created most of the articles of people who died recently. Since both of them stopped editing, no-one has replaced them in that role. () 13:01, 16 August 2016 (UTC)
I've been working on ways to make connecting to our IRC channels easier, so could someone tell me if This URL allows them to do so? () 15:47, 17 August 2016 (UTC)
Every time I make an edit, I have to click submit twice. This might be due to a problem where I am locally logged in but am not locally, this results in a "loss of session data" or something. I'm using public wifi right now, so that might be part of the problem? () 20:39, 21 August 2016 (UTC)
We haven't updated DYK since February; is anyone against an update or does anyone mind me putting its gears into motion for a proposed update? () 22:29, 26 August 2016 (UTC)
Thoughts? Anyone? () 09:55, 28 August 2016 (UTC)
If there are no further concerns, I think that it'd be great to finally change it for September? () 15:33, 29 August 2016 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="538848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538848" title="Suraya Pakzad">
Suraya Pakzad

Suraya Pakzad is an Afghan activist. She started Voice of Women, an organization that helps women in Afghanistan. In 2008 she received the International Women of Courage Award from the U.S. Department of State.
Pakzad was born in Herat, Afghanistan. She received a degree in literature from Kabul University in 1990.
When Pakzad was 12 years old, she saw a gunman kill the headmistress of her school. A few weeks later, a bomb hit her school and killed a girl in her class.
Pakzad started Voice of Women in 1998. Its main office is in the city of Herat, but it has other offices in three provinces. The organization continued during the time of the Taliban rule, mostly in the city of Kabul. The organization helps women with housing. It helps women who get out of jail, women who run away from violent men, and girls who run away from forced marriages. 
During the time of the Taliban, the organization had secret schools for girls in Kabul. After the end of the Taliban in 2001, Voice of Women was the first women’s NGO to register with the new government.
In 2014 Pakzad started a women-only restaurant in Herat Province.

</doc>
<doc id="538889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538889" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Lao language">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Lao language


</doc>
<doc id="538935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538935" title="Category:Sibling duos">
Category:Sibling duos


</doc>
<doc id="538937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538937" title="Category:Sibling musical duos">
Category:Sibling musical duos


</doc>
<doc id="538940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538940" title="Category:1970s in fiction">
Category:1970s in fiction


</doc>
<doc id="538950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538950" title="Category:Infobox video game with deprecated parameters">
Category:Infobox video game with deprecated parameters


</doc>
<doc id="538951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538951" title="Category:Infobox person using certain parameters when dead">
Category:Infobox person using certain parameters when dead

Articles using template appear in this category if they are about dead people and they use the salary or net worth parameters.

</doc>
<doc id="538952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538952" title="Spotswood, New Jersey">
Spotswood, New Jersey

Spotswood is a town in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States.
Its first settler James Johnston originally called the place "Spotteswoode", named for his old place of residence in Scotland. The settlement dates back to 1685.
Spotswood was originally part of East Brunswick Township, but decided to become its own town on April 15, 1908.
The town had a total area of 2.472 square miles (6.402 km).
As of the 2000 United States Census there were 7,880 people, 3,099 households, and 2,163 families residing in the borough.

</doc>
<doc id="538953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538953" title="Category:Infobox person using numbered parameter">
Category:Infobox person using numbered parameter


</doc>
<doc id="538954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538954" title="Category:Templates including undated clean-up tags">
Category:Templates including undated clean-up tags


</doc>
<doc id="538955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538955" title="Category:Amusement ride article using undocumented parameters">
Category:Amusement ride article using undocumented parameters


</doc>
<doc id="538959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538959" title="Bokeo Province">
Bokeo Province

Bokèo (Laotian: ບໍ່ແກ້ວ;) is a northern province of Laos. It has the fewest people. Bokeo Province is the smallest of the country's provinces, covering an area of .
Bokeo ("gem mine") was named after the sapphires gems that is found in the province. 
Bokeo Province is the smallest of the country's provinces, covering an area of . 
The Bokeo Nature Reserve was created as protection for the black crested gibbon (also known as "black-cheeked gibbon"), discovered in 1997, previously thought to be extinct. Elephants and wild water buffalo migrate through the reserve; bears and tigers are also present. 
Other than the gibbons the wildlife in the reserve reported are: tigers, bears, otters and wild cattle.
Its population was 145,000 in 2007, in 36 townships, more than 400 villages. The province has more than 34 ethnicities. 
Houay Xay, the capital city of the province, has a lot of eco nomic activity. The province produces a lot of maize. Also there is a big industry for precious stones and gold
"Paa beuk", a catfish, the largest freshwater fish in the world, is found in the Mekong river. It grows to in length and could weigh up to 300 kg. It is an economic resource for the people as it has a high price in the market, the meat of this endangered fish being a delicacy.

</doc>
<doc id="538984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538984" title="Tempora">
Tempora

Tempora is the codeword for a computer system used by the British Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). It collects most internet communications from fibre-optic cables. The data base of messages can be searched later as required. The system went into action in autumn 2011.
Tempora uses intercepts on the fibre-optic cables that make up the backbone of the Internet. Thus it gets large amounts of internet users' personal data, without any individual suspicion or targeting.
The existence of Tempora was revealed by Edward Snowden. He is a former American intelligence contractor who leaked information to former "Guardian" journalist Glenn Greenwald in May 2013. This was part of Snowdon's revelations of government-sponsored mass surveillance programs. Data collected by the Tempora program is shared with the National Security Agency of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="539009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539009" title="USA3000 Airlines">
USA3000 Airlines

USA3000 Airlines was an airline from the United States. The original name of the airline was "Brendan Airways". For commercial reasons, the airline chose to be known as "USA3000 Airlines". It was started by Apple Vacations in 2001. The airline started charter (irregular) flights to Cancún and Punta Cana in December of 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="539020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539020" title="Lampang Province">
Lampang Province

Lampang (, ) is one of the northern provinces ("changwat") of Thailand.
Lampang is in the broad river valley of the Wang River. It has mountain chains. The highest mountain is Doi Luang. It stands at high.
Lampang is famous for the production of ceramic goods and its mining operations. A great deal of ball clay, china stone, and lignite are extracted from the surrounding mountains.
There are more than 200 ceramic factories in and around Mueang Lampang district. Most of ceramic factories are small to medium-sized operations mainly producing novelties (plant pots, dolls), tablewares, and building materials (tiles, railings).
The largest coal fired power plant in Southeast Asia is in Mae Mo district near the lignite mining area. The plant uses the abundant lignite as fuel. The largest concrete plant is also north of Mueang Lampang. This is also powered by lignite. Limestone is another abundant rock mined in Lampang. The agricultural products that this province is famous for are rice and pineapples.
In the 11th century, the Khmer Empire occupied the Lampang area. King Mengrai of Lanna took control of the region and made it part of his kingdom in 1292. Lampang became a province of Thailand in 1892.
Hand-made cotton (ผ้าทอมือ) comes in different patterns designed by different villages.
Wood-carving (ไม้แกะสลัก) is a major industry at Tambon Na Khrua of Mae Tha district
Terra-cotta or ceramics (เซรามิก) produced in Lampang are of the best quality in Thailand.
Sa Paper (กระดาษสา) is a fine product made from a type of soft wood. The process is purely traditional and the major producing center is the village of Ban Nam Thong.
Luang Wiang Lakhon Fair (งานหลวงเวียงละคอน) features Lampang's own historical backgrounds and long-established customs and traditions.i
Khantok Chang Fair (งานขันโตกช้าง หรือ สะโตกช้าง) hosts an elephant fiar
Lampang Trains and Horse Carriages Day (งานวันรถไฟรถม้าลำปาง) is organized at the Nakhon Lampang Railway Station at the beginning of April to commemorate the first royal train that arrived to the station 1 April 1916. In the event, there will be an exhibition and Kat Mua market, where the participants will dress up in the traditional style of costume of some 80 years ago, when the horse carriage was first used in Lampang. The carriage service is also provided in the event.
Salung Luang Procession and Songkran Festival (งานแห่สลุงหลวงและสงกรานต์) is a festival held from 12–14 April every year. On 12 April, water bowls will be decorated". On 13–14 April every year, there will be, sand pagoda making, ceremony of pouring water onto the elderly, splashing of water, fairs and various forms of entertainment.

</doc>
<doc id="539021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539021" title="Chumphon Province">
Chumphon Province

Chumphon () is one of the southern provinces of Thailand.
Chumphon is located on the narrow landbridge between the Malay Peninsula and the mainland of Thailand. The north has mountains and the east has flat land on the coast of the Gulf of Thailand. It has a 222 kilometre-long coastline and 44 islands.
The southern part of the province was originally a separate province named Lang Suan. It was incorporated into Chumphon in 1932.
In November 1989, typhoon "Gay" hit the province hard. 529 people were killed, 160,000 became homeless, of farm land was destroyed. "Gay" is the only tropical storm on record which reached Thailand with typhoon wind strength.
Today, Chumphon Province is a destination center for massive human trafficking from nearby Burma (Myanmar).
It is believed that name comes from a local tree called the "Maduea Chumphon" (มะเดื่อชุมพร ). The tree is abundant in the province.
The coffee-growing valley of Ban Panwal in Tha Sae District includes 178,283 rai of robusta coffee plantations. It produces more than 24 million tonnes a year. Chumphon Province contributes 60 percent of Thailand's total coffee production. Local brands include Thamsing, ST Chumphon and Khao Tha-Lu Chumporn.
In 2015, the region had 1.86 million tourists. These tourists spent 7.55 billion baht. Average hotel occupancy rose to 65 percent from 53 percent in 2014.
Transport
Air
Chumphon Airport is 30 km north of Chumphon city. It has direct daily flights to Bangkok's Don Mueang Airport (DMK). Flights from Bangkok are around 60 minutes.
Nok Air operates two daily flights between Bangkok (Don Mueang, DMK) and Chumphon Airport (CJM). i.
Tham Thip Prida (ถ้ำทิพย์ปรีดา) A rocky mountain with about 40 caves, some which contain pools.
Khao Chao Mueang (เขาเจ้าเมือง) The district's highest observation point. Tourists can take offering panoramic views of the coast and far out into the Chumphon Archipelago.
Khao Phang Forest Park (วนอุทยานเขาพาง) Within the national park, there is a great variety of tropical vegetation.
Watershed forest mountain (สัมผัสยอดเขา) Hiking trail to the top of mountain with views of both the Andaman Sea and the Gulf of Thailand
Somdech Phra Srinagarindra Park (สวนสมเด็จพระศรีนครินทร์ฯ ) The park consists of a hill and rivers.
Namtok Thap Chang (น้ำตกทับช้าง) A waterfall in Khlong Phrao National Park.
Wat Chao Fa Sala Loi (วัดเจ้าฟ้าศาลาลอย) This old Buddhist temple is particularly important to the people of Chumphon, who revere a monk named Luang Pu Song. .
Wat Tha Kwan Mueang (วัดท่าควนเมือง) A temple on top of a limestone hill
Wat Phra Thart Sawi (วัดพระธาตุสวี) A temple next to Sawi River stands a shrine
Chumphon National Museum (พิพิธภัณฑสถานแห่งชาติชุมพร) the museum provides an summary of the province.
Namtok Heo Lom (น้ำตกเหวโหลม) Waterfalls.
Por Ta Chongdong Summit (ยอดเขาพ่อตาโชงโดง) about 1,000 meters high.
Por Ta Mangkre Summit (ยอดเขาพ่อตามังเคร)
Khao Thung-Klong Pi waterfall (เขาทุ่ง-น้ำตกคลองปิ) Khlong Pi waterfall.
Phato Rafting (งานเทศกาลล่องแพพะโต๊ะ)Held during February to April. There is a mini-marathon.
Lang Suan's Fruit Fair (งานวันผลไม้เมืองหลังสวน) This fair is organized annually around August. The fruit market here exhibits a variety of fruits and there is a fruits contest.
Traditional Boats Procession and Boat Race (งานประเพณีแห่พระแข่งเรือ) - a race on boats since 1844.

</doc>
<doc id="539023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539023" title="Chainat Province">
Chainat Province

Chai Nat () is one of the central provinces of Thailand.
Chai Nat is a flat plain. It is in central Thailand's Chao Phraya River valley. There is a dam. It is used for flood control as well. It also is used to divert water into the country's largest irrigation system. The water is used for irrigation of rice paddies in the lower river valley. The dam was finished in 1957 and was the first dam constructed in Thailand.
Chai Nat was first established during the Ayutthaya kingdom. It was used as a successful base of operations for confronting the Burmese army. As the Burmese were defeated every time, the area earned the name Chai Nat, "place of victory".
Chai Nat Bird Park (สวนนกชัยนาท) This sanctuary has the biggest bird sanctuary in Asia (26 rai; 4.2 hectares). Many bird bird species to live in their natural habitat.
Wat Thammamun Worawihan (วัดธรรมามูลวรวิหาร) The temple enshrines Luangpho Thammachak, a standing Buddha image
Wat Phra Borommathat Worawihan (วัดพระบรมธาตุวรวิหาร) There is an old pagoda
Chai Nat Muni National Museum (พิพิธภัณฑสถานแห่งชาติ ชัยนาทมุนี) This archaeological museum is a 2-storey adapted Thai-style building. Downstairs displays celadon Buddha images, tools, and ornaments.
Wat Pak Khlong Makham Thao or Wat Luangpu Suk (วัดปากคลองมะขามเฒ่า หรือ วัดหลวงปู่ศุข) This shady temple offers pleasant scenery and is famous for Buddha amulets.
Wasan Crocodile Farm (ฟาร์มจระเข้วสันต์) There are different kinds of animals such as crocodiles, tigers, rays, and various bird species.
Chao Phraya Dam (เขื่อนเจ้าพระยา) The nation's first large dam.
Wat Karuna (วัดกรุณา) This temple houses Chai Nat's largest sandstone Buddha image.
Khun San Statue (อนุสาวรีย์ขุนสรรค์) Khun San or Hero of the Noi River is one of the Bang Rachan folk leaders who fought courageously seven times against the Burmese.
Wat Phra Mahathat (วัดพระมหาธาตุ) The royal temple of Mueang Phraek or Mueang San. The temple houses a distinguished prang with a fluted spire like the shape of a star fruit. The prang housing Buddha relics is made from brick on a square shaped base (a plinth) in the Lop Buri style.
Wat Song Phi Nong (วัดสองพี่น้อง) Legend has it that Chao Sam, one of the three siblings, incited the other two siblings named Chao Ai and Chao Yi against each other for the throne. Both Chao Ai and Chao Yi died and Chao Sam became the ruler. Chao Sam then built one prang and one chedi for his late brothers.
Wat Phra Kaeo (วัดพระแก้ว) An ancient temple housing a beautiful square-based stupa. In front of the stupa stands a Buddha image hall known as Wihan Luangpho Chai, where a delicately carved sandstone lintel was found at the back of the image.
Monkey Park (สวนลิง) The temple houses rubber plantations and is home to a number of monkeys.
Wat Klai Kangwon (วัดไกลกังวล) or Khao Saraphat Si Charoen Tham (เขาสารพัดศรีเจริญธรรม) On top of the hill sees ruins of an ordination hall and the Buddha's footprints, as well as, a panoramic view of the area.
Dakkhanon Mattress (ที่นอนดักคะนน) Stuffed with kapok, these are made by the locals of Ban Dakkhanon, Tambon Thammamun.
Benjarong Pentachrome Ceramics (เครื่องเบญจรงค์) These five-coloured ceramics are made in the finest and most sophisticated craftsmanship.
Manorom's Pomelo (ส้มโอมโนรมย์) The most famous is the Khao Taengkwa variety with its sweet-crispy taste, large size, and is available throughout. The annual fair is held in August.
Water Hyacinth Woven Product (ผลิตภัณฑ์ผักตบชวา) By making good use of this local plant, water hyacinths are made into a variety of affordable and delicate handicraft products and household decorations such as bags, baskets, slippers, flower pots, trays in the shape of a chicken, and vases
Herbal Shampoo Products (ผลิตภัณฑ์แชมพูสมุนไพร) Made from kaffir limes, aloe, butterfly pea, turmeric, and soapberry, these renowned good quality herbal shampoo, conditioner, and bath gel, are products of the Tha Sai.
Pottery (เครื่องปั้นดินเผา) These stylishly designed pottery products such as flower pots, mugs, plates, watering utensils, and household decorations.
Huai Krot Sugar This palm sugar in soft cakes is derived from sugar palm trees
Artificial Flowers and Trees These are made from various materials such as plastic or sa paper.
Hand-woven Textiles Utilizing their spare time from cultivation, local housewives produce the uniquely traditional hand-woven textile such as the tube skirt or pha sin with the decorative piece woven in discontinuous supplementary weft technique known as tin chok, which is the influence of Laotian ancestors, who previously migrated to Chainat.
Straw Bird Fair, Chai Nat's Product Fair, and Red Cross Fair (งานมหกรรมหุ่นฟางนกนานาชาติ งานของดี และงานกาชาดจังหวัดชัยนาท) This annual fair is organized by making good use of straw, a by-product in rice farming.
Chai Nat Pomelo Fair (งานส้มโอชัยนาท) Chai Nat is one of several provinces famous for producing exceptional pomelo.

</doc>
<doc id="539035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539035" title="Kanchanaburi Province">
Kanchanaburi Province

Kanchanaburi ( (Pronunciation)) is the largest of the western provinces ("changwat") of Thailand. 
Tourists are attracted by the history of its ancient civilisation and the World War II Bridge over the River Khai (also spelt "Khwae").
The province is in the west of Thailand, 129 km from Bangkok, and covers a total area of approximately 19,483 km². It is the country's third largest province, after Nakhon Ratchasima and Chiang Mai. Topographically, it is covered with timber and evergreen forests. The land has the famous River Kwai.
Several national parks are in the mountainous forest areas. They include the Thungyai Naresuan Wildlife Sanctuary, which is on the UNESCO world heritage list.
Archaeological remains found in Kanchanaburi date back to the 4th century. Evidence of trade exists, saying the people traded with surrounding regions at that time. Very little is known about the historical Khmer influence in Kanchanaburi.
Very little of the region is known before the reign of King Rama I. In 1982, many skeletons and swords were found in Phanom Thuan District. This makes people think this site was the place of the famous battle of King Naresuan against the Burmese crown-prince.
Most foreigners are mainly aware of Kanchanaburi's recent history. During the Japanese occupation of Thailand in 1942, Allied Prisoners-of-War and Asian labourers were ordered by the Japanese to build a Thailand-Burma railway. Eventually, more than 100,000 people (16,000 allied POWs and 90,000 local Asian labourers) died from horrific working conditions.
River: Locals seldom use the river as a means of transportation these days, but instead for tourist-related boat rides and karaoke dinners.
Roads: Kanchanaburi's districts are connected by three highways which also link to neighbouring provinces.
Airport: There is no public airport in Kanchanaburi.
Rail: Kanchanburi is on the line from Bangkok Noi to Nam Tok (Sai Yok). The section from Kanchanaburi westward is what remains of the railway built by forced labour. The line from Nam Tok to Sanklaburi (next to the Burmese border) was pulled up by the British after the war. There is a short section of track along with a nearby museum at Hell Fire Pass, a few kilometres west of Nam Tok.
Bus: Air-conditioned buses serve Bangkok, while travel to provincial districts and surrounding provinces is done by non- air-conditioned buses. 
Only 129 km from Bangkok, Kanchanburi is a favourite holiday destination for Bangkokians and other Thais residing in the central region.
For most non-Thai, Kanchanaburi historical significance stems from the movie The Bridge Over the River Kwai, which was built by forced labour during the Second World War.
The Bridge Over the River Kwai was built next to the town of Kanchanaburi. The Death Railway ran all the way from the Kwae River valley up to Three Pagodas Pass. Today, only the lowest part of the railway to Nam Tok is still in use. Kanchanaburi city has a war museum and a large POW cemetery.
In the Sai Yok district, there is a Buddhist tiger temple where tame tigers roam freely once a day. Also in Sai Yok is the Mueang Sing Historical Park, ruins of a Khmer town and temple, as well as the Sai Yok National Park with the two Sai Yok waterfalls.
Kanchanaburi War Cemetery (Don Rak) (สุสานทหารสัมพันธมิตรดอนรัก) The immaculately maintained cemetery contains the remains of 6,982 Allied POWs who perished during the construction of the "Death Railway".
Death Railway (ทางรถไฟสายมรณะ), the strategic railway tracks began from Nong Pla Duk Station in Amphoe Ban Pong, Ratchaburi, and ran via Kanchanaburi across the Khwae Yai River, westbound to the Three Pagodas Pass, to end at Thanbuyuzayat in Burma. Total length within Thai territory was 300 km. The railway took only one year to complete, from October 1942–October 1943. After the war, some lengths of track were demolished and some submerged under the lake of Khao Laem Dam.
Sai Yok National Park (อุทยานแห่งชาติไทรโยค), a park since 1980, most of the area is limestone mountains with mixed deciduous forest. 
Star gazing 
Kirdkao Observatory (หอดูดาวเกิดแก้ว) in Tambon Lum Rang, is a place to gain knowledge about stars and nature. 
Forest trekking 
Sangkhla Buri Jungle Trek This service is offered to tourists by hotels in Amphoe Sangkhla Buri. The programme starts with rowing boats along Huai Song Ka Lia, riding elephants and rafting.
Mountain biking 
Mountain biking is very common in the province. 
Rafting, Canoeing, White Water Rafting are also very common along various routes such as Noi River, Kwae River, Song Ka Lia River.
Elephant trekking Kanchanaburi has many elephant camps providing elephant trekking.
Ban Nong Khao is one district in Kanchanaburi, about 12 km. away from the province. Villagers here still live simply in an agricultural society and old-style houses practising culture and traditions which has been transmitted from generation to generation.
Homestay at Ban Khao Lek 
Ban Khao Lek is a small Karen village, situated in the middle of a valley in the area of Chaloem Rattanakosin National Park with splendid nature. Most villagers earn a living by farming and collecting products from the forest. They live a simple life and mainly rely on nature. They practice Karen culture from generation to generation.
In 1918, alluvial sapphire deposits were discovered near Bo Ploi. It was a major source of sapphires in the 1980s and 1990s.
Kanchanaburi Province is the site of "Klity Creek", a waterway heavily polluted by the practices of the Lead Concentrate Company. The company was ordered by a Thai court to clean up its environmental damage in 2013. To date (2016) the court ordered clean-up has been halting and ineffectual.
Ram Yoei is a local dance of the Kanchanaburi local people that has been performed for more than 500 years. They perform Ram Yoei on Songkran Day and New Year, etc. Men and women must form a circle, one person will lead to sing and another will sing to the other’s lyric in reply, and Luk Khu (chorus) will sing along and dance to the rhythm of Klong Yao drums. At present, Ram Yoei is played only in Amphoe Phanom Thuan.
Most of the local rural people work in the field of agriculture. Even though most of them are of Thai ancestry, there is also a lot of Mon and Karen blood around. As minority, people have dwelled in the area for hundreds of years. Kanchanburi enjoys plenty of popular folk festivals.
Mineral Water and Waterfall Bathing Day (งานวันอาบน้ำแร่แช่น้ำตก); held at Hin Dat Hot Spring, at the beginning of November.
Boat and Raft People’s Day (งานเทศกาลชาวเรือชาวแพ); held every year at the beginning of November at Song Khwae Road near the riverside in front of the city of Kanchanaburi. Activities are folk performances, Thai typical music performance, academic exhibition concerning conservation of rivers and canals, water sports such as riding long-boat, speed-boat and jet-skiing.
River Kwae Bridge Week (งานสัปดาห์สะพานข้ามแม่น้ำแคว); held every year around the end of November until the beginning of December to commemorate the significance of the Death Railway and the Bridge over the Khwae River taking place in World War II. Visitors can see the historical and archaeological exhibition, folk performances, booths of products, entertaining activities, and light and sound show.
Kanchanburi is known for its freshwater fish. The most popular dining areas are the Song Kwae Road waterfront area and the riverside restaurants in the vicinity of the River Kwai Bridge. There are "jungle" food restaurants selling illegal imported meat of endangered animals from Burma.
In town there is the Kanchanaburi Memorial Hospital and lots of clinics and pharmacies.

</doc>
<doc id="539042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539042" title="Pathum Thani Province">
Pathum Thani Province

Pathum Thani (, ) is one of the central provinces ("changwat") of Thailand.
The province is north of Bangkok.
Many canals are in the province. They are used to feed the rice paddies.
In 1815, King Rama II visited the city. He was given a lot of lotus flowers. Because of this, the king decided to rename the city to "Pathum Thani". It means "the lotus flower town".
Pathum Thani has a very high concentration of higher education institutions, especially ones in the field of science and technology. This, together with a large number of industrial parks and research facilities (including those in Thailand Science Park), make the region the educational and technology hub of the area.

</doc>
<doc id="539049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539049" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from April 2016">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from April 2016


</doc>
<doc id="539096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539096" title="Bible of Borso d'Este">
Bible of Borso d'Este

The Bible of Borso d'Este or Bibbia di Borso d’Este is a famous illuminated Latin Bible from the Renaissance period in the history of Europe. It was made in 1455-61 for Borso d'Este, the Duke of Ferrara. It has more than 600 pages and more than 1000 small paintings. It has many pictures of plants and animals as well as pictures showing life in the fifteenth century, including pictures of music and dance.
Northern Italy had a tradition of miniature painting for many years. The French Bible of Niccolò III was painted in this tradition. It was a model for Borso's miniatures. Niccolò's Bible was written in 1434. It is now in the Vatican.
The Bible of Borso d'Este was made between 1455 and 1461. A group of artists made the drawings. Taddeo Crivelli and Franco dei Russi were the leaders of the artists. Other artists were Girolamo da Cremona, Marco dell’Avogadro, and Giorgio d’Alemagna. Pietro Paolo Marone, a scribe from Bologna, did the writing.
In 1598, the Estense family moved to Modena, after the Pope took control of Ferrara. They took the Bible with them to Modena. In 1859, the city of Modena became part of Italy, and Francesco V d’Austria-Este went to Vienna with the Bible. In 1923, Giovanni Treccani degli Alfieri bought the Bible in a Paris bookstore. He returned the Bible to the Biblioteca Estense in Modena, Italy.
The Bible of Borso d'Este is now in the Biblioteca Estense (Este Library) in the Palazzo dei Musei, a museum and art gallery. The museum building was originally a poorhouse called Grande Albergo dei Poveri, built from 1767 to 1771. In 1788 the building became an art gallery. In 1883, the government got the building. The Bible of Borso d'Este is one of the most famous books in the museum.

</doc>
<doc id="539124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539124" title="Hume's fork">
Hume's fork

David Hume divided knowledge into two categories “relations of ideas”, and “matters of fact”. Relations of ideas are truthful and correct statements (for example “all unmarried men are bachelors”. Matters of fact are statements we are nearly certain are truthful but there is still a chance for it to be false: “the sun will rise in the morning”: there is a chance it will not rise.

</doc>
<doc id="539135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539135" title="Purple Rain (song)">
Purple Rain (song)

"Purple Rain" is a pop and rock song by the musician Prince. The song is from the 1984 album of the same name. It was the third single off that album.
On the "Billboard" Hot 100, the album reached #2 for two weeks. It was certified as Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America. One million copies were shipped in the United States.
Prince won an Academy Award for Best Original Song Score for "Purple Rain".
The original version is eight minutes/forty five seconds long. The song was shortened to four minutes before it was released as a single.

</doc>
<doc id="539136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539136" title="When Doves Cry">
When Doves Cry

"When Doves Cry" is a 1984 rock–pop ballad from the musician Prince. It was the lead single off his 1984 album "Purple Rain". It was a worldwide hit. It was also his first American #1 hit song. It topped the charts for five weeks.
According to "Billboard" magazine, "When Doves Cry" was the top selling single of the year. It was certified as Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. Over two million copies were shipped in the United States.
The song is one of Prince's signature songs.

</doc>
<doc id="539137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539137" title="Lopburi Province">
Lopburi Province

Lopburi () is a province in the central region of Thailand. Many historical structures, artifacts, and prehistoric settlements have been discovered. 
Known as Lavo during much of its history, Lopburi probably dates to prehistoric times. The name Lavo originated in the Dvaravati period (6th–11th century CE). The Khmer Empirewould build many impressive temples in the city during its rule. 
In 1856, King Mongkut of the Chakri dynasty ordered King Narai's palace to be renovated. The city finally regained its importance in 1938, when Field Marshal Plaek Phibunsongkhram chose Lopburi to be the largest military base in Thailand.
Lopburi is on the east side of the Chao Phraya River valley. It is between the Lopburi River and Pa Sak Rivers. Most of the land is mixed plains and hills.
Structures built during the reign of King Rama IV include:
Phiman Mongkut Pavilion (หมู่พระที่นั่งพิมานมงกุฎ) was constructed at the command of King Rama IV in 1862 as his private residence when he came to renovate Lopburi. 
Phra Prathiap Buildings (หมู่ตึกพระประเทียบ) Composed of two single storey buildings and a group of eight two-storey brick buildings, constructed for being residential quarters for court officials who attended King Rama V when he visited Lopburi.
Thim Dap or Royal Guards Residence (ทิมดาบ หรือที่พักของทหารรักษาการณ์) Passing through the entrance to the middle court, the buildings on both sides of the lawn were the barracks of the royal guards of the palace.
Wat San Paulo (วัดสันเปาโล) A Jesuit church, constructed in the reign of King Narai. At present, only a side of the wall and an observatory remain. 
Wat Chi Pa Sitaram (วัดชีป่าสิตาราม) Within the compound of the temple is a bell-shaped chedi representing Ayutthaya art.
Kraison Siharat Hall (พระที่นั่งไกรสรสีหราช) This hall is another residence of King Narai. 
Wat Yang Na Rangsi and Lop Buri Boat Museum (วัดยาง ณ รังสี และพิพิธภัณฑ์เรือพื้นบ้าน) Lopburi Boat Museum is at the temple sermon hall, constructed in 1927 on the bank of the Lopburi River. The hall was granted an award for Best Architectural Preservation in 1993. It reflects the rural Thai temple hall's style in central Thailand. 
Tha Khae Scripture Hall (หอไตรวัดท่าแค) Dharma Scripture hall of the "Lao Lom" community. Normally, a scripture hall is constructed on high columns in a pond. However, the one at this temple is a wooden house with a cruciform plan located on high columns.
Ang Sap Lek (อ่างซับเหล็ก) A natural ancient reservoir. In 1977, Lopburi improved Ang Sap Lek to be a natural tourist attraction by building roads around the reservoir, planting trees, as well as, erecting a summer relaxation pavilion.
Wat Lai (วัดไลย์) There are remaining ancient stucco reliefs on the Jakata stories and the Buddha's life. Maitreya Bodhisattva's image is another object that has been highly respected by the people from the past. Besides, there are other objects such as an old wihan with slit windows, which is the architecture reflecting the early Ayutthaya style. 
Khao Samo Khon (เขาสมอคอน) A mountain range which has been important historically. There are four important temples on this mountain range: Wat Bandai Sam Saen, Wat Tham Tako Phutthasopha, Wat Tham Chang Phueak, and Wat Khao Samo Khon.
Amphoe Ban Mi (อำเภอบ้านหมี่) Famous for Mudmi silk. Most of the locals are Thai Phuan who migrated from Laos around 130 years ago. They named their new settlement as "Ban Mi" after their former Laotian village.
Wat Thammikaram or Wat Khangkhao (วัดธรรมิการาม หรือ วัดค้างคาว) Mural paintings at the four sides of the ubosot depict the life of Buddha. The paintings incorporate Western techniques such as the shading of trees. 
Wat Thong Khung Tha Lao (วัดท้องคุ้งท่าเลา) The entrance of the temple is in the shape of Hanuman with its mouth wide open, decorated with glass in distinctive colours. 
Wat Nong Tao (Wat Phanit Thammikaram) (วัดหนองเต่า หรือ วัดพาณิชธรรมมิการาม) The ubosot on the back of a turtle, "tao", considered the symbol of the sub-district. 
Wat Khao Wongkot (วัดเขาวงกต) There is a bat cave on the shoulder of the mountain above the ubosot. It is the largest bat cave in Lopburi, inside which live millions of bats. The bats' droppings generate an income for the wat of more than ten thousand baht a year.
Khao Wong Phrachan (เขาวงพระจันทร์) At the summit of Khao Wong Phrachan visitors can see the panoramic scenery below. Khao Wong Phrachan is the highest mountain in Lopburi.
Sunflower fields (ทุ่งทานตะวัน) Lopburi is the leading sunflower province. Some 200,000–300,000 rai are planted with sunflowers. They are usually in full bloom from November–January. Sunflower fields are scattered throughout Mueang District, Phatthana Nikhom District, and Chai Badan District. 
Wat Phrom Rangsi (วัดพรหมรังษี) This temple has an ubosot with four porches. The bell-shape chedi is similar to the Phra Borommathat, a chedi containing a Buddha relic, in Nakhon Si Thammarat. 
Pa Sak Jolasid Dam (เขื่อนป่าสักชลสิทธิ์) It is the longest clay-core dam in Thailand. The Pa Sak River Basin Museum presents information about nature and culture. 
Ban Pong Manao Site Museum (พิพิธภัณฑ์เปิดบ้านโป่งมะนาว) A pre-historic archaeological site dating from around 2,500–3,000 years ago or the late-Ban Chiang Period. Thirteen ancient human skeletons were found here.
Khao Somphot Non-hunting Area (เขตห้ามล่าสัตว์ป่าเขาสมโภชน์) A high and steep limestone mountain range stretching along the southwestern direction, full of caves and cliffs. There are two plains in the valley and a plateau, with many spots of water seepage around the area, making it a significant watershed.
Sap Langka Wildlife Sanctuary (เขตรักษาพันธุ์สัตว์ป่าซับลังกา) The significance of the area is that it is the source of the Lam Sonthi River, as well as, a source of food for wildlife. At present, there are still goat antelopes which are protected animals living in the sanctuary. 
Special Warfare Command (หน่วยบัญชาการสงครามพิเศษ) (Mueang District) Demonstrations of how to survive in the forest, a 34-foot tower jump, parachute from a balloon, shooting, cliff climbing, and a military jungle tour. An Army Special Forces Museum displays photos, equipment, background, evolution and pictures of various activities of the special forces. 

</doc>
<doc id="539139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539139" title="Nakhon Nayok Province">
Nakhon Nayok Province

Nakhon Nayok () is one of the central provinces ("changwat") of Thailand. The word "nakhon" comes from the Sanskrit word "nagara".
The highest mountain in the province is in the northern part. The mountain is tall.
The main river of the province is the Nakhon Nayok River. 
The city of Nakhon Nayok dates back to the Dvaravati Kingdom, probably founded in the 11th century. Ruins from this time are visible at Mueang Boran Dong Lakhon south of the modern city. It was originally named "Mueang" Lablae. The name Nakhon Nayok was assigned to it in 1350, when it became a garrison town of the Ayutthaya kingdom protecting the eastern boundary.
On 1 January 1943, the government downgraded Nakhon Nayok Province and combined it with Prachinburi Province, except for Ban Na district which became part of Saraburi Province. On 9 May 1946 the province was re-established.
San Lak Mueang (City Pillar Shrine) (ศาลหลักเมือง) at one time it was a shrine housing a 1-metre wooden column topped with a carving in the form of a lotus bud, near the Old City Wall.
Chulachomklao Royal Military Academy (โรงเรียนนายร้อยพระจุลจอมเกล้า) It is a training centre for Thai military cadets.
Attractions in the Chulachomkloa Royal Military Academy include:
Namtok Sarika (น้ำตกสาริกา) is the most famous waterfall of Nakhon Nayok. The waterfall cascades down 9 levels
Lan Rak Falls or Tat Hin Kong Falls (น้ำตกลานรักหรือน้ำตกตาดหินกอง) waterfall 
Wang Takhrai (วังตะไคร้) is filled with huge, trees and has a small stream running through. There are also a variety of beautiful species of ornamental flowers and plants.
Nang Rong Falls or Namtok Nang Rong (น้ำตกนางรอง) The waterfall originates from a source on a high mountain in Khao Yai National Park. It cascades down several levels onto rock formations, flowing through verdant forests
Huai Prue Reservoir (อ่างเก็บน้ำห้วยปรือ) This is a small reservoir by volume but has a large surface area. 
Sai Thong Reservoir (อ่างเก็บน้ำทรายทอง) This small reservoir offers a natural mountainous landscape. 
Namtok Ka-ang (น้ำตกกะอาง) The water cascades
Namtok Wang Muang (น้ำตกวังม่วง) Waterfall
Thudongkhasathan Thawon Nimit (ธุดงคสถานถาวรนิมิตร) is a meditation centre for monks, novices, nuns, and the general public. There are hundreds of shelters for monks, nuns, and general public to worship.
Namtok Heo Narok (น้ำตกเหวนรก) This is a 3-tiered large waterfall with its first tier at 60 metres high. During the rainy season, there is such a lot of water that the flow is frightening and will drop straight down at 90 degrees to a lower chasm.
Ornamental Plants and Floral Centre (ศูนย์ไม้ดอกไม้ประดับ) Various plant nurseries that grow a large variety of ornamental plants and flora which are sold to every corner of the country.
Khao Yai-Nakhon Nayok Jungle Treks (ท่องไพรเขาใหญ่-นครนายก) is usually held during December to June. The trekking aims to promote the study of nature and ecology, as well as creating good understanding in natural resources and environmental conservation.
Khao Yai National Park, the first national park of Thailand was declared a national park on September 18, 1962. It covers areas of four provinces: Nakhon Nayok, Nakhon Ratchasima, Prachin Buri, and Saraburi. The park occupies an area of 2,168 square kilometers and consists of virgin forest, tropical forest, streams, waterfalls, wildlife, and a variety of plants. The most suitable visiting time is during the Thai winter, from October to February when it is cold at night until the next morning. The highest point is Khao Rom Peak, which is 1,351 metres above sea level.
Sweet Plum Mango (Ma-prang, มะปราง) is the most well known fruit of Nakhon Nayok (it is a sweet fruit and is similar to "ma-yong-chit", a sour fruit). The ma-prang harvest season February to March. They are grown in a number of orchards on the Nakhon Nayok-Namtok Sarika road.
Bamboo Products (ผลิตภัณฑ์จากไม้ไผ่) Products include a miniature sail boat, a peacock, and human faces.
Brooms (ไม้กวาด) Manufactured in Tambon Sarika, Amphoe Mueang, Tambon Na Hin Lat, Tambon Khok Kruat, Tambon Nong Saeng, Amphoe Pak Phli. The brooms are made with indigenous grass and the broomstick is made from a piece of wood from a tree of the Apocynaceae family or made of bamboo.
Doormats made from scrap cloth (พรมทอจากเศษผ้า) are produced in Tambon Khao Phoem, Amphoe Ban Na. The scrap cloth, also made into bed covers, are sold in various sizes at furniture stalls of Ban Na market and Amphoe Mueang.
Sugared Banana Chips (Kluai Chap) (กล้วยฉาบ) and sugared sweet potato and sugared taro chips are produced in Tambon Sarika, Amphoe Mueang.
Preserved Fruits (ผลไม้แช่อิ่ม) such as star apples, tamarinds, mangos, santol, and lime. 
Tak Bat Thewo Rohana Fair (งานประเพณีตักบาตรเทโวโรหนะ), a festivity where offerings are made to monks.
Sweet Plum Mango and Nakhon Nayok Products Fair (งานวันมะปรางหวานและของดีนครนายก) takes place to promote Ma-prang (sweet plum mangoes), and other agricultural products and handicrafts
Thai Merit Making (Sat Thai) and Long boat Racing Festival (งานประเพณีสารทไทยและแข่งเรือยาวประเพณี) is annually held in October along Khlong 29 at Wat Thawiphon Rangsan, Amphoe Ongkharak. 
Ongkharak Ornamental Plants and Flowers Fair (งานมหกรรมไม้ดอกไม้ประดับองครักษ์) is annually held in April to showcase ornamental plants and flowers

</doc>
<doc id="539140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539140" title="Nakhon Pathom Province">
Nakhon Pathom Province

Nakhon Pathom () is one of the central provinces ("changwat") of Thailand. The province is known for its many fruit orchards.
Nakhon Pathom is a small province. It is from Bangkok.
The name comes from the Pali words "Nagara Pathama", meaning "first city". Nakhon Pathom is often referred to as Thailand's oldest city.
Due to sedimentation from the Chao Phraya River, the coast line moved much farther to sea. 
Major settlement of the province included emigration beginning in the reign of King Rama II, The province includes industrial zones, major university towns, government offices relocated from Bangkok and agricultural and transport hubs.
Wat Phra Pathom Chedi Ratchaworaviharn is one of the main royal temples. Belonging to this temple is the Phra Pathom Chedi, one of the tallest pagodas in the world. 
Suan Sam Pran is a big garden. Nearby is the Sam Pran Crocodile farm, which includes a zoo and has elephant and crocodile shows.
The Jesada Technik Museum is on the eastern edge of Nakhon Chai Si and has a large collection of old cars, trucks, and planes.
Wat Phra Pathom Chedi Ratchavoraviharn () is a first class royal monastery.
Nakhon Pathom Palace () Royal palace
Phrabat Somdej Phra Monkut Klao Chaoyuhua Museum (Sanam Chan Palace) () The palace was constructed by command of King Rama VI in the year 1907.
Phra Tamnak Chali Monkol-asna () This 2-storey building is of European architecture
Ya-Lei Monument () The dog, Ya-Lei, was very close to the heart of King Rama VI. The king was very fond of Ya-Lei, so much so that Ya-Lei was envied, and was later shot by an envious person. King Rama VI was much saddened when Ya-Le died and commanded that a copper statue of Ya-Lei be cast and placed on a pedestal in front of Phra Tamnak Chali Monkol-asna.
Neun Dhamma Sala () The physical appearance is that of a hill with a tunnel opening that is believed to connect Wat Phra Mayn to Wat Dhamma Sala. From hearsay, there are various valuable treasures like ancient pottery but which may not be taken out because there is a treasure guardian spirit watching.
Wat Phra Mayn () It is an abandoned temple that nowadays resembles a large hill. Also discovered here are other artefacts which include bronze Buddha images as well as arms, thighs, and hands from a laterite Buddha image, Yaksa Deva (Thai mythical giant gods), Lotus Lion Deva, and stucco relief from the stupa ruins.
Phra Padhone Chedi () As Wat Phra Padhone Chedi is in the middle of the ancient city of Nakhon Chai Si thus several artefacts were discovered during excavations. Some of the discovered items include Buddha images, heads of Buddha images and Buddha images in terra cotta, as well as a bronze figure of a garuda gripping naga under its claws, which is the official symbol of King Rama VI.
Neun Phra or Neun Yai Hom () This area was once an ancient temple and that the hill must have been a large chedi that was in the temple compound dating back to the Dvaravati period, or earlier, roughly about 1,000 years ago.
Buddhamonthon () A huge upright Buddha image
Samphran Elephant Ground & Zoo () There are daily elephant shows, elephant rides around the compound, elephant musical shows, crocodile-wrestling shows, and magic shows.
Rose Garden () There are a multitude of beautiful floral displays of great variety.
Thai Human Imagery Museum () The museum displays lifelike wax/fibreglass sculptures of vivid detail.
Wat Klang Bang Kaew () The temple houses a chapel, a vihara, and a principal Buddha image, all of which are very old and assumed, archaeologically, to have been built in the Ayutthaya period. There is a Phra Phuttha Vithinayok museum, exhibiting historical remains, artefacts, as well as utensils of the late monks: Luang Poo Boon (Phra Phuttha Vithinayok Boon Kanthachoti) and Luang Poo Perm (Phra Phuttha Vithinayok Perm Punyavasano).
Fish Sanctuary () The place is a natural fish sanctuary, which is the habitat of various species of fish typical to the Tha Cheen River.
Kasetsart University, Kamphaeng Saen Campus (Botanical Garden) In the university compound, there are number of projects to educate farmers and the general public that include scaled-down projects such as an agricultural technology project, an irrigation system initiated along with the Royal project, an Entomological Park where various species of butterflies are housed, a pilot vegetable plantation plot, and Suan Saen Palm (garden of a hundred thousand palms), which collects various kinds of ornamental palms.
Ancient City of Kamphaeng Saen () this is an ancient town that is worth visiting. It is used as a Boy Scout camp. The interesting attractions of Ancient City of Kamphaeng Saen include unchanged ditches and earth dikes surrounding the ditches.
Sight-seeing by boats there are tours of canals, visiting fruit orchards and orchid farmt Office (terminal of Bangkok-Samphran line bus), via Chinda canal and Bangchang canal, passing rose apple orchards, coconut orchards, and orchid farms.
Pomelo orchards in Nakhon Chai Si ()
Suan Thai Tawee pomelo orchard () This orchard 
Banchong Orchid Farm () The orchid farm 
Sweet pomelo ()
Fragrant coconut juice ()
Khao lam () is sticky rice mixed with coconut milk and grilled in a bamboo stalk.
Nakhon Pathom Food and Fruits Fair () is annually held during the Chinese New Year, around January–February, on the grounds of Phra Pathom Chedi to promote the agricultural and industrial products of the province. It aims to promote the fruits that are grown in Nakhon Pathom such as pomelo, sweet coconuts, guavas, and bananas. It also features Chinese buffet arrangement contests and fruit contests.
Songkran Festival ) is annually held from 13–17 April around Phra Pathom Chedi. During the festival, there are many activities such as the Songkran procession floats, Chinese Dragon and Lion Dances, bathing of the revered Phra Ruang Rodjanarit, sand chedi building, Thai opera, and local entertainments.
Buffet for Elephant and Elephant Queen Pageant () is annually held on Labour Day (1 May) at the Samphran Elephant Ground and Zoo to show gratitude to elephants living in the grounds. The Elephant Queen Pageant is held to find a rather plump lady who could interpret and display the elephant's gentle character.
Wat Rai Khing Festival () is annually held from the 13th day of the waxing moon to the 4th day of the waning moon in the fifth month of the lunar calendar. There are many goods sold, from various government units and also from farmers. The fair also features fruit contests and there are many kinds of entertainment at night.
Phra Pathom Chedi Festival () The fair takes place annually from the 12th day of the waxing moon to the 4th day of the waning moon in the 12th month of the lunar calendar. It is held on the grounds of Phra Pathom Chedi. At night, various entertainments are provided.
Loy Krathong Festival () is held annually on the 15th day of the waxing moon in the 12th month of the lunar calendar (November). The festival is held at Sanam Chan Palace, and features beauty pageants, krathong contests, hanging lantern contests, and local entertainment, among others.

</doc>
<doc id="539146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539146" title="Category:Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters">
Category:Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

The people in this category won the Academy Award for Best Original Song.

</doc>
<doc id="539147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539147" title="Hans-Jochen Vogel">
Hans-Jochen Vogel

Hans-Jochen Vogel (born 3 February 1926) is a German politician. Vogel was born in Göttingen. In December 1972, Chancellor Willy Brandt made Vogel Minister for Regional Planning, Building, and Urban Development. Brandt's successor, Helmut Schmidt, made him Minister of Justice in 1974. From 1987 to 1991, Vogel was also the Leader of the Social Democratic Party. He was an MP in the "Bundestag" until 1994. He was the mayor of Munich from 1960 through 1972 and served as Mayor of Berlin in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="539148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539148" title="Georg Kronawitter">
Georg Kronawitter

Georg Kronawitter (born 21 April 1928) is a German politician. He was a member of the SPD. He was mayor of Munich from 1972 to 1978 and from 1984 to 1993. He joined the SPD in 1961 and was elected to the Landtag of Bavaria in 1966. In the 1972 local elections, he was elected Mayor of Munich with 55.9 percent of the votes.
Kronawitter was born in Oberthann, a part of Schweitenkirchen, in the district of Pfaffenhofen.

</doc>
<doc id="539150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539150" title="Category:Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songs">
Category:Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songs


</doc>
<doc id="539151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539151" title="Category:Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award">
Category:Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award


</doc>
<doc id="539152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539152" title="Academy Award for Best Original Song">
Academy Award for Best Original Song

The Academy Award for Best Original Song is one of the awards given every year by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). It is given to the songwriters who write the best original song specifically for a movie. Only songs that are "original and written specifically for the motion picture" can win.
The award category was first given at the 7th Academy Awards. That ceremony was for 1934 movies. Nominations are made by Academy members who are songwriters and composers. All Academy members vote for the winner.

</doc>
<doc id="539154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539154" title="Mount &amp; Blade: Warband">
Mount &amp; Blade: Warband

Mount & Blade: Warband is an expansion to the Action role-playing game video game "Mount & Blade". First announced in January 2009, the game was made by TaleWorlds Entertainment and was published by Paradox Interactive on March 30, 2010. The game can be downloaded from the TaleWorlds Website and on Steam or through DVD. 
"Warband" adds to the Mount and blade by introducing another faction to the game and also allows players to use political options, and allows the player to start their own faction. "Mount & blade: Warband" also has some multiplayer modes. Reviews of the game are often good, often stating the like for multiplayer.
The main changes to the game was the adding of multiplayer , the adding of a sixth faction, Sarranid Sultanate, and the change of the game map. The adding of political options. A player who is not with a faction to capture a town or castle and start their own faction. The player can travel the map, and fight along the way. The goal is to have one faction controlling all of the map.
The multiplayer mode removes all of the RolePlaying and the map from the single-player mode. It focus' more on direct combat with other players. Each player starts new with a basic character, later players can buy weapons, horses and armour, with gold earned by playing. The player's multiplayer and single-player characters are not linked, they were 8 modes.
"Napoleonic Wars" is a multiplayer-only DLC developed by Flying Squirrel Entertainment for "Mount & Blade: Warband." It "was" set during the last years of the Napoleonic Wars. The servers can hold up to 200 players it has five selectable nations. It was released on April 19, 2012. 
The multiplayer has different game modes such as team deathmatch, siege, capture the flag, duel, battle, and commander battle, for players to battle on. There are also community-organized events that pit player-created "regiments" against one another. Most of these regiments are based on actual regiments from the Napoleonic Wars. The regiments work together to create organized events, such as line-battles, sieges and groupfighting.

</doc>
<doc id="539158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539158" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/José Rafael Cordero">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/José Rafael Cordero


</doc>
<doc id="539159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539159" title="Category:Prince songs">
Category:Prince songs


</doc>
<doc id="539160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539160" title="Category:Prince (musician)">
Category:Prince (musician)


</doc>
<doc id="539170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539170" title="Camp David">
Camp David

Camp David is an official residence of the President of the United States. It is northwest of Washington D.C., in Catoctin Mountain park. Staffing is provided by the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Marine Corps. Its official name is Naval Support Facility Thurmont.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt had it built to escape the hot summers in Washington, D.C. At the time he called it "Shangri-La. In 1953 President Dwight D. Eisenhower renamed it Camp David after his grandson David Eisenhower. During the presidency of Jimmy Carter, The Camp David Accords were signed by Egyptian President Anwar El Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin on 17 September 1978. This followed twelve days of secret meetings at Camp David.

</doc>
<doc id="539180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539180" title="Tiruchirapalli District">
Tiruchirapalli District

Tiruchirapalli district is one of the 32 districts of Tamil Nadu. Its capital Tiruchirapalli is one of the biggest city in the state. It is located along the Kaveri River. The district's old name is Trichinopoly.
It is located in the heart region of the state. The area of the district is 4,404 sq.kilometres. The population of the district is 27,22,290.
Places to visit in Tiruchirappalli District are as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="539184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539184" title="Changi Airport MRT Station">
Changi Airport MRT Station

Changi Airport Station (CG2) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. The station is located in Singapore Changi Airport. 
Previous: Expo (CG1/DT35)<br>Next: N/A
Formerly the code was: E14 (before opening)

</doc>
<doc id="539185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539185" title="Marsiling MRT Station">
Marsiling MRT Station

Marsiling Station (NS8) is a station along the North South MRT Line in Singapore. It opened on 10 February 1996. It was first named Woodlands West Station.
Previous: Kranji (NS7)<br>Next: Woodlands (NS9/TE2)
From 1996-2001 the code for Marsiling Station was N18.

</doc>
<doc id="539191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539191" title="Grenoble School of Management">
Grenoble School of Management

Grenoble School of Management is a European higher studies establishment. The school is in 2 places, in Grenoble and in Paris. It has been created in 1984.
GEM is specialist in the fields of economics, social sciences and management.

</doc>
<doc id="539192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539192" title="Branch MRT Line">
Branch MRT Line

The Branch MRT Line was the third line of the Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) network in Singapore. 
The 6.5-km line and three of the four stations on it opened in March 1990. Trains ran as a branch line of the East West Line. The trip from one end of this line to the other took about ten minutes. The line used six-car Kawasaki Heavy Industries C151 and Siemens C651 trains as its rolling stock.
In February 1996, the North South Line was extended to Woodlands. The Branch MRT Line was merged into the North South MRT Line.

</doc>
<doc id="539196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539196" title="Bukit Panjang MRT/LRT Station">
Bukit Panjang MRT/LRT Station

Bukit Panjang Station (BP6/DT1) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the Bukit Panjang LRT Line and Downtown MRT Line. It is located at the boundary of Bukit Panjang, Bukit Batok, and Choa Chu Kang planning areas. It is the terminus station for the Downtown MRT Line.
The MRT is connected to an LRT station.
Formerly the station was called Petir MRT Station. Due to confusion, the name was changed to Bukit Panjang MRT Station in 2009.
Previous: Phoenix (BP5)/Ten Mile Junction (BP14)<br>Next: Petir (BP7)/Senja (BP13)
Previous: N/A<br>Next: Cashew (DT2)

</doc>
<doc id="539197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539197" title="Tanah Merah MRT Station">
Tanah Merah MRT Station

Tanah Merah Station (EW4) is an MRT Station in Bedok, Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. 
The station's design has white-washed walls, curved pillars and a dome-shaped ceiling. There is a glass roof running along the middle of the station.

</doc>
<doc id="539199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539199" title="Sengkang LRT Line">
Sengkang LRT Line

The Sengkang LRT Line is an LRT station Singapore. The 10.7 km line partially opened on 18 January 2003. 
Trains operating on the line are Mitsubishi Crystal Movers.
Sengkang (STC/NE16), interchange with North East MRT Line
Compassvale (SE1)
Rumbia (SE2)
Bakau (SE3)
Kangkar (SE4)
Ranggung (SE5)
Cheng Lim (SW1)
Farmway (SW2)
Kupang (SW3)
Thanggam (SW4)
Fernvale (SW5)
Layar (SW6)
Tongkang (SW7)
Renjong (SW8)

</doc>
<doc id="539202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539202" title="Category:Movies set in Europe">
Category:Movies set in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="539203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539203" title="Category:Movies by continent of setting">
Category:Movies by continent of setting


</doc>
<doc id="539209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539209" title="Lonnie Mack">
Lonnie Mack

Lonnie McIntosh (July 18, 1941 – April 21, 2016), known by his stage name, Lonnie Mack, was an American rock, blues, and country singer-guitarist. As a featured artist, his recording career lasted from 1963 to 1990. He remained active as a performer into the early 2000s. 
Mack is also called one of the finer "blue-eyed soul" singers of his era.
Mack died of natural causes at Centennial Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee on April 21, 2016, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="539210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539210" title="Gato Barbieri">
Gato Barbieri

Leandro "Gato" Barbieri (28 November 1932 – 2 April 2016) was an Argentine jazz tenor saxophonist and composer. He became famous during the free jazz movement in the 1960s. He was known for his Latin jazz recordings of the 1970s. His nickname, Gato, is Spanish for "cat".
Barbieri died of pneumonia in New York City on 2 April 2016 at the age of 83.

</doc>
<doc id="539211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539211" title="Erik Bauersfeld">
Erik Bauersfeld

Erik Bauersfeld (28 June 1922 – 3 April 2016) was an American radio dramatist and voice actor. He was known for his roles as Admiral Ackbar and Bib Fortuna in the third movie of the original Star Wars trilogy, "Return of the Jedi" (1983). He reprised his role as the voice of Admiral Ackbar in "" (2015).
Bauersfeld died at his home in Berkeley, California, on 3 April 2016, at the age of 93.

</doc>
<doc id="539212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539212" title="Don Francks">
Don Francks

Donald Harvey Francks (February 28, 1932 – April 3, 2016), also known as Iron Buffalo, was a Canadian actor, vocalist and jazz musician. Francks's acting career began with CBC Television as a regular on "Burns Chuckwagon from the Stampede Corral" (1955-55) and "Riding High" (1955), then in the drama "The Fast Ones" (1959). In 1957 he had a part in the American series "The Adventures of Tugboat Annie". 
Francks was the first actor to voice the role of Boba Fett, a Mandalorian bounty hunter in "Star Wars Holiday Special" and reprised the role in an episode of "". He voiced several characters in "Inspector Gadget" along with his daughter, Cree Summer, who voiced Penny during the first season of the show.
Francks died on April 3, 2016 from lung cancer in Toronto, Ontario at the age of 84.

</doc>
<doc id="539213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539213" title="Lars Gustafsson">
Lars Gustafsson

Lars Erik Einar Gustavsson (17 May 1936 – 2 April 2016) was a Swedish poet, novelist and scholar. He was born in Västerås, Sweden. 
Since the late 1950s he has produced poetry, novels, short stories, critical essays, and editorials. He earned international fame as a Swedish writer with literary awards such as the "Prix International Charles Veillon des Essais" in 1983, the "Heinrich Steffens Preis" in 1986, "Una Vita per la Litteratura" in 1989, a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship for poetry in 1994, and several others. He has been nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature.
Gustavsson died at the age of 79 on 3 April 2016 in Stockholm.

</doc>
<doc id="539214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539214" title="Rowley Habib">
Rowley Habib

Rowley Habib (24 April 1933 – 3 April 2016), also known as Rore Hapipi, was a New Zealand poet, playwright, and writer of short stories and television scripts. In short story writing, from 1956 to 1971 Habib was a regular contributor to "Te Ao Hou The New World", a magazine for Māori.
In 1984, Habib was awarded the Katherine Mansfield Menton Fellowship. In 2013, Creative New Zealand awarded him a Ngā Tohu a Tā Kingi Ihaka Te Waka Toi Award in recognition of his lifetime of service to Māori arts, describing his play "Death of the Land" as a "landmark in the development of Māori theatre."
Habib died on 3 April 2016, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="539215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539215" title="Martin Lampkin">
Martin Lampkin

Martin Lampkin (28 December 1950 – 2 April 2016) was an English professional motorcycle competitor. He competed in many of off-road motorcycle events, but specialized in observed trials competitions. He won the inaugural FIM Trial World Championship held in 1975. 
Lampkin is the father of twelve-time trials world champion, Dougie Lampkin. In a genre of motorcycling competition that features balletic grace and acrobatic finesse, Lampkin was known for using sheer momentum and physical strength to assault trials course sections.

</doc>
<doc id="539216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539216" title="Lola Novaković">
Lola Novaković

Zorana "Lola" Novaković (25 April 1935 – 3 April 2016) was a Serbian singer. She was popular during the 1960s and the 1970s. She was born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia. 
She was known for having represented FPR Yugoslavia at Eurovision Song Contest in 1962 where she finished fourth.
In 1962, she starred in "Šeki snima, pazi se", a full-length comedy movie.
She died a few weeks before her 81st birthday on 3 April 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="539218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539218" title="Amber Rayne">
Amber Rayne

Meghan Wren, better known by her stage name Amber Rayne (September 19, 1984 – April 2, 2016), was an American pornographic actress. Rayne entered the adult movie industry in 2005. In April 2015, she announced her official retirement from adult films.
Rayne was born in Detroit, Michigan and raised in Northern California. Rayne was a non-Hodgkin lymphoma and uterine cancer survivor. 
Rayne collapsed and died at her home in Los Angeles on April 2, 2016, aged 31. Results of an autopsy and toxicology report are pending.

</doc>
<doc id="539220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539220" title="Jules Schelvis">
Jules Schelvis

Jules Schelvis (7 January 1921 – 3 April 2016) was a Dutch historian, writer, Holocaust survivor and Nazi hunter. He lost his wife and most of his family during The Holocaust. Schelvis was a plaintiff and expert witness during the trial of John Demjanjuk.

</doc>
<doc id="539221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539221" title="Getatchew Mekurya">
Getatchew Mekurya

Gétatchèw Mèkurya (Amharic: ጌታቸው መኩሪያ) (14 March 1935 – 4 April 2016) was an Ethiopian jazz saxophonist. Mekurya reached an international audience when his album "Negus of Ethiopian Sax" was re-released as part of the Ethiopiques CD series. Mekurya's playing style has been compared to free jazz.
Mekurya died in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia from a leg infection caused by diabetes on 4 April 2016, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="539222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539222" title="George Radosevich">
George Radosevich

George L. Radosevich (January 25, 1928 – April 4, 2016) was an American football defensive back. He played for the Baltimore Colts from 1954 through 1956. He played college football at the University of Pittsburgh. He was born in Brentwood, Pennsylvania.
Radosevich died of congestive heart failure on April 4, 2016 in Anderson, South Carolina, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="539223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539223" title="Abe Segal">
Abe Segal

Abe Segal (23 October 1930 – 4 April 2016) was a South African tennis player. He was born in Johannesburg, South Africa. During the 1950s and 1960s, he was the doubles partner of Gordon Forbes. Together, they were thought of as one of the best doubles teams in the world.
Due to South Africa's policy of Apartheid, Alex Metreveli and István Gulyás both refused to compete in the 1964 Wimbledon against Segal, a white South African. This created the International Lawn Tennis Federation to pass a resolution prohibiting racial discrimination and dropping out of the tournament except due to "health or bereavement"
In 1951 he won the singles title at the Irish Open defeating Guy Jackson in the final in straight sets. He played for the South African Davis Cup team in 19 ties in the years 1955, 57, 59, 61-65 and compiled a record of 24 wins and 14 losses.
After retiring from tennis, Segal worked on painting. In 2008 he published a memoir titled "Hey Big Boy!".
Segal died of cancer on 4 April 2016 in Cape Town, South Africa at the age of 85.

</doc>
<doc id="539224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539224" title="Zyta Gilowska">
Zyta Gilowska

Zyta Gilowska (7 July 1949 – 5 April 2016) was a Polish economist, academic, and politician. She was born in Nowe Miasto Lubawskie, Poland. 
From 7 January to 23 June 2006, she was deputy prime minister and finance minister in the Law and Justice government under Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz. She was fired due to allegations about her communist-era collaboration. Paweł Wojciechowski replaced her as finance minister.
From 22 September 2006 to 16 November 2007, she again was deputy prime minister and finance minister. In October 2006, Gilowska was made the head of Poland's financial supervisory authority and the European Investment Bank governor of Poland.

</doc>
<doc id="539225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539225" title="László Bárczay">
László Bárczay

László Bárczay (21 February 1936 – 7 April 2016) was a Hungarian chess Grandmaster.
In 1966 he was awarded the FIDE International Master title. At the 1966 Olympiad in Havana, he scored 11/12 (ten wins and two draws) as second reserve for the bronze medal winning Hungarian team, winning the individual gold medal for sixth board. In 1967 he was awarded the Grandmaster title.

</doc>
<doc id="539226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539226" title="Frank E. Denholm">
Frank E. Denholm

Franklin Edvard Denholm (November 29, 1923 – April 7, 2016) was an American politician. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from South Dakota. He served in congress from 1971 through 1975. He was born in Scotland Township of Day County, South Dakota.
Denholm died on April 7, 2016, at the age of 92 in Brookings, South Dakota.

</doc>
<doc id="539228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539228" title="Carlo Monti">
Carlo Monti

Carlo Monti (24 March 1920 – 7 April 2016) was an Italian athlete. He competed mainly in the 100 metres. He won two medals, one individual and one relay, in international athletics competitions.
Monte competed for an Italy in the 1948 Summer Olympics held in London, Great Britain in the 4 x 100 metre relay where he won the bronze medal with his team mates Michele Tito, Enrico Perucconi and Antonio Siddi. In 1946 in the European Championships Monti won the bronze medal in the 100 metres.

</doc>
<doc id="539231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539231" title="Dick Alban">
Dick Alban

Richard Herbert Alban (January 17, 1929 – April 8, 2016) was an American football defensive back. He played eight seasons for the Washington Redskins and Pittsburgh Steelers in the National Football League (NFL). Alban played college football at Northwestern University, where he was used at halfback and on defense.
Alban was drafted in the ninth round of the 1952 NFL Draft and started all 12 games for the Redskins his rookie year. His best season came in 1954, where he finished second in the league in interceptions with nine and was selected to his only Pro Bowl. He was traded to the Steelers in 1956 and retired after the 1959 campaign.

</doc>
<doc id="539232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539232" title="Ed Snider">
Ed Snider

Edward Malcolm Snider (January 6, 1933 – April 11, 2016), known as Ed Snider, was an American sportsperson. He was the chairman of Comcast Spectacor, a Philadelphia-based sports and entertainment company. He formerly owned the Philadelphia 76ers of the National Basketball Association.
Snider died in Montecito, California from bladder cancer on April 11, 2016, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="539234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539234" title="Choix des plus belles fleurs">
Choix des plus belles fleurs

Choix des plus belles fleurs ('Selection of the most beautiful flowers') is a book of watercolour paintings by French botanical artist Pierre-Joseph Redouté (10 July 1759 – 19 June 1840). The full title is "Choix des plus belles fleurs et de quelques branches des plus beaux fruits. Dédié à LL. AA. RR. les princesses Louise et Marie d'Orléans (1827)" in French. English translation of the title is: "Selection of the most beautiful flowers and some branches of the finest fruits".
A folio edition with colour pages was printed in Paris in 1827. From May 1827 to June 1833, 144 special pages with pictures were printed. The work was in 36 parts. Each part had four pictures of flowers, flowering trees, or fruit.
The printing method for such works in the 18th and early 19th century was engraving on copperplate. It is a form of intaglio printing. 
Different colours could be got by running the plates through once for each colour, so building up the final picture. Fine colour works could also be hand-coloured by teams of women who were experts at the job. What this means is that every illustration in a book was coloured by hand. They had the artist's original in front of their eyes as they worked. The copper engraving gave the outline and any other black lines or areas.
In 1796, Redouté used a way to make prints which used both these methods. First, an engraver made an engraving from the painting, with small dots instead of lines. Then the colours were put on the engraved plate before each printing. After printing, each print was finished by hand with more colour. Redouté claimed to have invented this method. He was challenged in the courts, but he won the case.

</doc>
<doc id="539235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539235" title="Nera White">
Nera White

Nera D. White (November 15, 1935 – April 13, 2016) was an American basketball player. White played in the AAU national tournaments for the Nashville Business College team. Later, she led the United States national women's basketball team to their victory in the 1957 FIBA World Championship. 
Throughout her career, she was honored many times and won many awards, including her induction to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame. Playing at a time when there were no major professional women's basketball leagues in the U.S., White was called one of the greatest female players in history. Talented in multiple sports, she also was distinguished as an All-World player by the Amateur Softball Association.
White died on April 13, 2016 at a hospital in Gallatin, Tennessee from complications of pneumonia, at the age of 80.

</doc>
<doc id="539236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539236" title="Mircea Albulescu">
Mircea Albulescu

Mircea Albulescu (; real name Iorgu Constantin Albulescu; 4 October 1934 – 8 April 2016) was a Romanian actor, university professor (Doctor of Arts), journalist, poet, and writer. He was a member of the Writers' Union of Romania ("Uniunea Scriitorilor"). He was known for his roles in "Michael the Brave", "Capcana mercenarilor", and "Semne în pustiu".
He was born in Bucharest. He graduated from the Secondary School of Architecture in 1952, and in 1956 he graduated from the Institute of Theatrical and Cinematographic Art in Bucharest. 
Albulescu died on 8 April 2016 in Bucharest, Romania from heart failure, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="539237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539237" title="Wei Chueh">
Wei Chueh

Wei Chueh (, 1928 – April 8, 2016) was a Chinese bhikkhu (Buddhist monk) in Taiwan. He was the founder of the Chung Tai Shan monastery and Buddhist order. Wei Chueh is often credited for reviving the traditional teachings of Chan Buddhism. Chueh was born in 1928 in Xikang (modern Sichuan). 
Chueh died at the age of 88 on April 8, 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="539238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539238" title="Anne Gould Hauberg">
Anne Gould Hauberg

Anne Gould Hauberg (November 13, 1917 – April 11, 2016) was an American civic activist, philanthropist and patroness of the arts. She was born in Seattle, Washington. Hauberg's philanthropic career began when two of her three children proved to be mentally disabled. The Haubergs gave funds for the creation of the Pilot School for Neurologically Impaired Children which opened in 1960. In 2007, the University of Washington Libraries' Artist Images Award was renamed the Anne Gould Hauberg Artist Images Award in her honor.
Hauberg died on April 11, 2016 in Seattle, Washington at the age of 98.

</doc>
<doc id="539239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539239" title="Hans Koschnick">
Hans Koschnick

Hans Koschnick (2 April 1929 – 21 April 2016) was a German politician and elder statesman. He was a member of the SPD. He was the 4th President of the Senate and Mayor of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen from 1967 to 1985. He was the 22nd and 33rd President of the Bundesrat in 1970/71 and 1981/82. He served as a member of the Bundestag, the German federal parliament, from 1987 to 1998. Between 1994 and 1996, Koschnick was the EU administrator of Mostar. 
Koschnick died on April 21, 2016 from complications of pneumonia in Berlin, Germany, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="539240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539240" title="Guy Hamilton">
Guy Hamilton

Guy Hamilton (16 September 1922 – 20 April 2016) was an English movie director. He directed 22 movies from the 1950s to the 1980s, including four James Bond movies first being "Goldfinger" (1964). 
He also directed 'An Inspector Calls' (1954), with Alastair Sim, the musical comedy "Charley Moon" (1956) "Manuela" (1957), and "Battle of Britain" (1969). In the late 1980s, Hamilton was also asked to direct "Batman" (1989), but declined.
Hamilton died at the age of 93 on 20 April 2016 at his home in Majorca, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="539241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539241" title="Anne Grommerch">
Anne Grommerch

Anne Grommerch (11 December 1970 – 15 April 2016) was a French politician. She was a member of the National Assembly of France. She was born in Thionville. She represented the Moselle department, and was a member of the Union for a Popular Movement. She replaced Jean-Marie Demange. Grommerch was also elected Mayor of Thionville in 2014. 
Grommerch developed breast cancer in 2007. She died as a result of the disease on 15 April 2016 at the age of 45.

</doc>
<doc id="539243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539243" title="Estelle Balet">
Estelle Balet

Estelle Balet (19 December 1994 – 19 April 2016) was a Swiss freeride snowboarder and two-time world champion in 2015 and 2016 at the Freeride World Tour. 
Balet started skiing early in her childhood. At the age of ten she transitioned from skiing to snowboarding. Balet specialized particularly in switch, frontside 180, frontside 360 and jib. In 2015, Balet became the youngest ever Freeride World Tour champion when she won the women's snowboarding event. She won the same event in 2016.
On 19 April 2016, Balet died in an avalanche while snowboarding in Orsières. She was filming a snowboard segment for a film called "Exploring the Known" on Le Portalet in southwestern Switzerland. Despite swift action from emergency services and attendance from Air Glaciers, she died from her injuries.

</doc>
<doc id="539245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539245" title="Ronit Elkabetz">
Ronit Elkabetz

Ronit Elkabetz (November 1964 – 19 April 2016) was an Israeli actress and movie director. She worked in both Israeli and French cinema. She won three Ophir Awards and received a total of seven nominations. She was born in Beersheba. In 1994 she starred in "Sh'Chur". In 2008 she and Shlomi finished their second movie, "Shiva" ("Seven Days"), which won the Wolgin Award for Best Feature Film at the 2008 Jerusalem Film Festival.

</doc>
<doc id="539246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539246" title="Mehrdad Oladi">
Mehrdad Oladi

Mehrdad Oladi (, May 25, 1985 – April 19, 2016) was an Iranian footballer. He recently played for Malavan in the Iran Pro League. He usually played in the striker position.
He joined Malavan in the summer of 2009. Alongside Pejman Nouri, they had two great seasons with Malavan, reaching the final of the Hazfi Cup. He was the top scorer for Malavan with 15 goals in the 2010–11 season. In four games played in the Hazfi Cup, he scored five times.
He joined Esteghlal on 11 November 2013, with a one and half year contract. Oladi was released by Esteghlal in June 2014 and signed a contract with Malavan.

</doc>
<doc id="539247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539247" title="Duane Clarridge">
Duane Clarridge

Duane Ramsdell "Dewey" Clarridge (April 16, 1932 – April 9, 2016) was an American senior operations officer for the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and supervisor for more than 30 years. Clarridge was the chief of the Latin American division from 1981 to 1987 and a key figure in the Iran-Contra Affair.
Clarridge died at the age of 83, a week short of his 84th birthday in Leesburg, Virginia on April 9, 2016 from complications of esophageal cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="539248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539248" title="Tony Conrad">
Tony Conrad

Anthony Schmaltz "Tony" Conrad (March 7, 1940 – April 9, 2016) was an American avant-garde video artist, experimental filmmaker, musician, composer, sound artist, teacher and writer. His career began in the early 1960s. He was a pioneer of both structural movie and drone music. Support for Conrad's work came from the National Endowment for the Arts, the New York State Council on the Arts, the State University of New York, The Rockefeller Foundation, and the New York Foundation for the Arts.
Conrad had been a faculty member in the State University of New York at Buffalo since 1976. He continued to teach there in the Department of Media Study as well as work on many notable B&W film image projects with Princess G. St. Mary until his death in 2016.
Conrad died in Cheektowaga, New York on April 9, 2016 at age 76 after fighting prostate cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="539249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539249" title="Juris Ekmanis">
Juris Ekmanis

Juris Ekmanis, (2 December 1941 – 9 April 2016) was a Latvian educator and physicist. He was the President of Latvian Academy of Sciences from 2004 through 2012. He was appointed Junior Research Associate at the Riga Polytechnical Institute from 1961-1986, and Professor from 1986-1994. 
He was Visiting Professor at Cornell University (Ithaca), Iowa State University (Ames), University of California, Berkeley, USA in 1974 and at Manchester University in 1993. 
In 1976 he became a Visiting Scientist at McGill University (Montreal). In 1990 he became the Director of the Institute of the Physical Energetics at the Latvian Academy of Sciences.
Ekmanis died of complications from a stroke in Riga, Latvia on 9 April 2016, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="539250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539250" title="Will Smith (defensive end)">
Will Smith (defensive end)

William Raymond Smith III (July 4, 1981 – April 9, 2016) was an American football defensive end in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for Ohio State and was drafted by the New Orleans Saints in the first round of the 2004 NFL draft, where he played for the entirety of his career.
Smith was shot and killed in New Orleans, Louisiana by Cardell Hayes after he crashed into Hayes's car. Smith was with his wife who was also injured. Smith was 34 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="539251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539251" title="Milt Pappas">
Milt Pappas

Milton Steven "Milt" Pappas (May 11, 1939 – April 19, 2016) was an American professional baseball pitcher. Pappas, nicknamed "Gimpy", pitched for the Baltimore Orioles (1957–1965), Cincinnati Reds (1966–1968), Atlanta Braves (1968–1970) and Chicago Cubs (1970–1973). Pappas was born to Greek parents in Detroit, Michigan, and his birth name was Miltiades Stergios Papastergios.
Pappas pitched in 520 games, starting 465, with 209 wins, 164 losses, 43 shutouts, 1,728 strikeouts and a 3.40 ERA in 3,186 innings pitched.
Pappas died of natural causes on April 19, 2016 in Beecher, Illinois, aged 76.

</doc>
<doc id="539256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539256" title="Billy Redmayne">
Billy Redmayne

Billy Redmayne (1990/1991 – 19 April 2016) was a Manx soldier and motorcycle racer. He was born Laxey. He served in the Parachute Regiment in the War in Afghanistan. By 2013 he was able to devote all of his time to racing. He won the Newcomers Manx Grand Prix in 2014 and the Junior Manx Grand Prix a year later.
On 17 April 2016 he was hit from behind by another competitor in a crash at the Oliver's Mount Spring Cup in Scarborough, North Yorkshire. He was airlifted to James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough. His brain injuries were too severe for him to recover, and his partner and family made a decision for his life support to be switched off and his organs donated. He died two days after the accident on 19 April at the age of 25.

</doc>
<doc id="539257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539257" title="Louis Gladstone">
Louis Gladstone

Louis I. Gladstone (May 22, 1927 – April 10, 2016) was an American politician. He was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut.
Gladstone served on the City Council of Bridgeport, first elected in 1955, serving as minority leader. He was elected to the state senate in 1958 while still serving on the Common Council, as president. In the state senate, he served on the Public Utilities Commission and Cities, Boroughs, Roads and Bridges Committee. During his time in the state senate he also served a term as majority leader. Gladstone also served as Comptroller of Connecticut from 1967 to 1970.
Gladstone died in Bridgeport, Connecticut on April 10, 2016 at the age of 88.

</doc>
<doc id="539258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539258" title="Howard Marks">
Howard Marks

Dennis Howard Marks (13 August 1945 – 10 April 2016) was a Welsh drug smuggler turned author. He was known as an international cannabis smuggler through high-profile court cases. At his peak he smuggled as much as 30 tons, and was connected with groups as diverse as the CIA, the IRA, MI6, and the Mafia. 
He was eventually convicted by the American Drug Enforcement Administration and handed a 25-year sentence to be served at Terre Haute; he was released in April 1995 after serving seven years. Though he had up to 43 different aliases, he became known as "Mr Nice" after he bought a passport from convicted murderer Donald Nice. After his release from prison, he published a best-selling autobiography, "Mr Nice", and campaigned publicly for changes in drugs legislation.
On 25 January 2015, it was announced that Marks had inoperable colorectal cancer. He died of the disease on 10 April 2016, at the age of 70.

</doc>
<doc id="539259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539259" title="Henryk Średnicki">
Henryk Średnicki

Henryk Średnicki (17 January 1955 – 10 April 2016) was a Polish amateur boxer. He represented his native country twice at the Summer Olympics, starting in 1976 (Montreal, Canada).
Średnicki was best known for winning the world title at the second World Amateur Boxing Championships in 1978, beating Cuba's Héctor Ramírez in the final.

</doc>
<doc id="539260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539260" title="Sir John Leslie, 4th Baronet">
Sir John Leslie, 4th Baronet

Captain Sir John Leslie, 4th Baronet (John Norman Ide Leslie, 6 December 1916 – 18 April 2016), known locally as Jack Leslie, was an Irish aristocrat and media personality.
He was the eldest son of Shane Leslie (Sir John Randolph Leslie, 3rd Baronet) and Marjorie Ide. He became the fourth baronet when his father died in 1971. He was the owner of Castle Leslie in Glaslough.
Leslie died at the age of 99 in Ireland on 18 April 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="539261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539261" title="Kerima (actress)">
Kerima (actress)

Kerima (born February 10, 1925) is a French movie actress. She was best known for her role in "Outcast of the Islands".
She was born in Toulouse, France to French parents. She studied medicine before finding success in acting. 
Kermia was active in movies throughout the 1950s and early 1960s, working with Italian and American directors including Joseph Mankiewicz and Howard Hawks. Her last known work were minor parts in 1972, the last being a bellydancer in one episode of "The Adventurer", a British TV series.

</doc>
<doc id="539262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539262" title="Toralv Maurstad">
Toralv Maurstad

Toralv Maurstad (born 24 November 1926 in Bærum, Norway) is a famous Norwegian actor of stage, screen and television. He graduated from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London in 1949. His only American movie appearance was starring in the 1970 box office and critical disaster "Song of Norway". He is thought as perhaps the greatest interpreter of Henrik Ibsen's "Peer Gynt", having played the part numerous times.

</doc>
<doc id="539266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539266" title="Eva Henning">
Eva Henning

Eva Henning (born Eva Wetlesen; 10 May 1920 – 18 April 2016) was a Swedish stage and movie actress. She was known for her roles in "Elvira Madigan" (1943), "Flickan från tredje raden" (1949), and in "The Firebird" (1952). She was born in Newark, New York to Swedish parents.
Henning died in Oslo, Norway on 18 April 2016, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="539268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539268" title="Cox Habbema">
Cox Habbema

Cornelia "Cox" Habbema (21 March 1944 – 18 April 2016) was a Dutch movie and television actress. From 1968 to 1984 she played in movies for the East-German filmproduction DEFA. She was known for her roles in "To Grab the Ring" (1968), "Eolomea" (1972), "The Incorrigible Barbara" (1977), "Apprehension" (1982) and "A Question of Silence" (1982). She was born in Amsterdam, Noord-Holland, Netherlands.
Habbema died of cancer in Amsterdam on 18 April 2016, aged 72. 

</doc>
<doc id="539270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539270" title="Yuri Bychkov">
Yuri Bychkov

Yuri Alexandrovich Bychkov (; September 1, 1931, Lopasnya – April 18, 2016, Moscow) was a Russian art historian. He was a member of the Union of Artists and the Union of Theatre Workers of the Russian Federation. He was director of writer's house museum in Melikhovo from 1994 through 2004.
He graduated from the Moscow Aviation Institute. He was one of the founders VOOPIK (All-Russian Society for Historic Preservation and Cultural Organization).
Bychkov died in Moscow on April 18, 2016, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="539272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539272" title="Peter Rock (musician)">
Peter Rock (musician)

Peter Mociulski von Remenyk (September 3, 1945 – April 16, 2016), known by his stage name Peter Rock, was a Chilean rock and roll and nueva ola musician. He sang in Festival de Viña del Mar and in Bierfest Valdivia. In 2014, he appeared in a Chilean movie titled "Blood Sugar Baby".
He was born near Vienna in 1945, shortly after the death of his father. His mother remarried and the family emigrated to Chile in 1955.
In October 2014, he was diagnosed with ALS, which kept him in a wheelchair. He died on Viña del Mar on 16 April, 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="539274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539274" title="Louis Pilot">
Louis Pilot

Louis Pilot (11 November 1940 – 16 April 2016) was a Luxembourgian football player and manager. Pilot started his footballing career at his home town club CS Fola Esch, before signing for Belgian team Standard Liège at the age of 20.
In November 2003, to celebrate UEFA's jubilee, he was selected by the Luxembourg Football Federation as the country's Golden Player - the greatest player of the last 50 years.

</doc>
<doc id="539275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539275" title="Dene Smuts">
Dene Smuts

Muldene "Dene" Smuts (July 13, 1949 – April 21, 2016) was a South African politician. She was a member of Parliament for the Democratic Alliance, serving in many capacities, including as Shadow Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development. Smuts was editor of "Fair Lady" magazine, managing editor of "Leadership", and was a prize-winning author.
Smuts was Broadcasting and Telecoms spokesperson for both the Democratic Party (DP) and Democratic Alliance (DA) from 1994 and 1996. In 1992, Smuts became South Africa’s first female whip in Parliament and served as DP party chairperson from 1994 to 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="539276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539276" title="Rod Daniel">
Rod Daniel

Rollin Augustus "Rod" Daniel III (August 4, 1942 – April 16, 2016) was an American television and movie director. He directed the movies "Teen Wolf" (1985), "Like Father Like Son" (1987), "K-9" (1989), "The Super" (1991), "Beethoven's 2nd" (1993) and "Home Alone 4: Taking Back The House" (2002).
Daniel died at his home in Chicago, Illinois on April 16, 2016 from Parkinson's disease, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="539278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539278" title="Jeanette Bonnier">
Jeanette Bonnier

Johanna Margaret Jeanette Bonnier, (January 23, 1934 – April 16, 2016), was a Swedish media proprietor, journalist and author. She was the daughter of the publisher Albert Bonnier Jr. and Birgit Flodquist and the sister of Charlotte Bonnier. She was known because she held one of the largest stakes of the Bonnier Group. She was a journalist for "Expressen".
Bonnier died in Stockholm, Sweden from heart failure on April 16, 2016, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="539279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539279" title="Banharn Silpa-archa">
Banharn Silpa-archa

Banharn Silpa-archa (parts of his name also spelt variously Banhan, Silapa-, Sinlapa-, and -acha; , , , 19 August 1932 – 23 April 2016) was a Thai politician. He was the Prime Minister of Thailand from 1995 to 1996. Banharn made a fortune in the construction business before he became a Member of Parliament. He represented his home province of Suphanburi. 
He held different cabinet posts in several governments. In 1994, he became the leader of the Thai Nation Party. In 2008, the party was dissolved by the Constitutional Court and Banharn has been banned from politics for five years.
Banharn died from an asthma attack on 23 April 2016 at Siriraj Hospital in Bangkok at the age of 83.

</doc>
<doc id="539280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539280" title="David J. C. MacKay">
David J. C. MacKay

Sir David John Cameron MacKay, FRS, FInstP, FICE (22 April 1967 – 14 April 2016) was a British physicist, mathematician, and academic. He was the Regius Professor of Engineering in the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge and from 2009 to 2014 was Chief Scientific Adviser to the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). Before being appointed to the DECC, MacKay was most well known as author of the book "Sustainable Energy – Without the Hot Air".
MacKay died of stomach cancer in Cambridge, England on 14 April 2016, aged 48.

</doc>
<doc id="539281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539281" title="Arnold Wesker">
Arnold Wesker

Sir Arnold Wesker FRSL (24 May 1932 – 12 April 2016) was a British dramatist. He was known for his works in drama. He was the author of 50 plays, four volumes of short stories, two volumes of essays, a book on journalism, a children's book, extensive journalism, poetry and other assorted writings. 
His plays have been translated into up to 20 different languages and performed worldwide.
Wesker died of complications from Parkinson's disease on 12 April 2016 in Brighton, England, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="539282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539282" title="David Gest">
David Gest

David Alan Gest (May 11, 1953 – April 12, 2016) was an American entertainer, comedian, producer and television personality. Gest produced the highest-rated musical television special in history, "" in 2001. 
Gest appeared on the 2006 series of the British reality television show "I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!" He became the first American to have three prime-time series in the UK. Gest appeared in "Celebrity Big Brother" in the UK in 2016 but due to illness had to leave after 13 days. 
He was married to actress Liza Minnelli from 2002 until they divorced in 2007.
On April 12, 2016, Gest was found dead in his room at the Four Seasons Hotel in East London's Canary Wharf district, at the age of 62. His death was described by police as involving no suspicious circumstances. It was soon reported Gest died of a stroke.

</doc>
<doc id="539284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539284" title="Pedro de Felipe">
Pedro de Felipe

Pedro Eugenio de Felipe Cortés (18 July 1944 – 12 April 2016) was a Spanish footballer who played as a central defender. He was born in Madrid. de Felipe arrived at Real Madrid in 1964 at the age of 20. He won the 1965–66 European Cup while playing in seven complete matches. de Felipe gained one cap for Spain, playing the full 90 minutes in a 0–0 friendly with Turkey on 17 October 1973, in Istanbul.

</doc>
<doc id="539286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539286" title="Gianroberto Casaleggio">
Gianroberto Casaleggio

Gianroberto Casaleggio (; 14 August 1954 – 12 April 2016) was an Italian entrepreneur and political activist. He was co-founder and chairman of Casaleggio Associati srl and editor of Beppe Grillo's blog. He was also co-founder, with Beppe Grillo, of the Five Star Movement, of which he was sometimes called "guru". Casaleggio promoted the Web in Italy as a medium for political communication.
Casaleggio died on 12 April 2016 at the age of 61, after a long-illness.

</doc>
<doc id="539287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539287" title="Paul Carey">
Paul Carey

Paul Carey (March 15, 1928 – April 12, 2016) was an American broadcaster and sportscaster. He broadcast professionally in six different decades. He is a member of the Michigan Sports Hall of Fame. He was known for broadcasting the Detroit Tigers games and for producing the Detroit Tigers Radio Network from 1964 to 1971.
Carey died on April 12, 2016 in Rochester, Michigan from complications of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), at the age of 88.

</doc>
<doc id="539288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539288" title="Liang Sili">
Liang Sili

Liang Sili (; 24 August 1924 – 14 April 2016) was a Chinese rocket and missile system control scientist, and an academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). 
He was the youngest son of Chinese scholar and reformist Liang Qichao. His elder brothers, Liang Sicheng and Liang Siyong, were also academicians.
He was appointed at the Institute of Telecommunications Technology (Ministry of Posts & Telecommunications) and later Institute of Electronic Science (Communication Department of PLA). In 1956, Liang transferred to the Fifth Institute of Ministry of Defense. He became the deputy director of Research Office of Missile Control System, working under Qian Xuesen. He acted an important role on the design of Dongfeng 2A missile, Dongfeng 5 missile, Long March 2 rocket and Long March 3 rocket.
Liang was elected an academician of the International Academy of Astronautics in 1987, and academician of CAS in 1993. He became the vice-president of the International Astronautical Federation in 1994.
Liang died on 14 April 2016 at the age of 91 in Beijing.

</doc>
<doc id="539289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539289" title="Ilija Ivezić">
Ilija Ivezić

Ilija Ivezić (20 July 1926 – 14 April 2016) was a Croatian movie actor. He was born in Ričice, Gračac, Croatia.
In a career that spanned more than fifty years, Ivezić worked with directors Fadil Hadžić, Krsto Papić, Vatroslav Mimica, Antun Vrdoljak, Veljko Bulajić, and Antun Vrdoljak, among many others. He was known for his roles in "Last of the Renegades" (1964), "Die Rechnung - eiskalt serviert" (1966), "Acting Hamlet in the Village of Mrdusa Donja" (1974), "The Golden Years" (1993) and in "Marshal Tito's Spirit" (1999)
Ivezić died on 14 April 2016 in Zagreb, Croatia, aged 89.

</doc>
<doc id="539291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539291" title="Manouchehr Sotodeh">
Manouchehr Sotodeh

Manouchehr Sotodeh (, 19 July 1913 – 13 April 2016) was an Iranian geographer and scholar of Persian literature. He wrote 60 books and nearly 300 articles. He is the first Iranian who published the first dialectal dictionary. He was also a professor of University of Tehran.
Sotodeh died in Chalus, Iran from respiratory failure on 13 April 2016, aged 102.

</doc>
<doc id="539292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539292" title="Mariano Mores">
Mariano Mores

Mariano Martínez, better known as Mariano Mores (18 February 1918 – 13 April 2016), was a famous Argentine tango composer, pianist and conductor. He was born in Buenos Aires. 
Together with Enrique Santos Discépolo, he authored such classics as "Uno" (1943), "Sin palabras" (1946) and "Cafetín de Buenos Aires" (1948). Mores and José María Contursi wrote "En esta tarde gris" (1941), "Tu piel de jazmín" (1941), "Grisel" (1942) and "Cristal" (1944). He co-wrote "La calesita" (1953) and "El patio de la morocha" (1951) with Cátulo Castillo, "Una lágrima tuya" (1949) with Homero Manzi and, "Cuartito Azul" (1939) with Mario Battistella.
Mores died on 13 April 2016 in Buenos Aires at the age of 98.

</doc>
<doc id="539293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539293" title="Leonie Kramer">
Leonie Kramer

Dame Leonie Judith Kramer (1 October 1924 – 20 April 2016) was an Australian academic, educator and professor. She is known to be the first female professor of English in Australia, first woman to chair the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and the first female chancellor of the University of Sydney. She was made the Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire and the Companion of the Order of Australia.
Kramer died in Sydney, Australia on 20 April 2016 from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 91.

</doc>
<doc id="539294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539294" title="Marina South Pier MRT Station">
Marina South Pier MRT Station

Marina South Pier (NS28) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is the southern terminal station of the North South Line. The station is located near the Marina South Pier and the Marina Bay Cruise Centre Singapore.

</doc>
<doc id="539295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539295" title="Braddell MRT Station">
Braddell MRT Station

Braddell MRT Station (NS18) is an MRT Station in Singapore.. It is along the North South MRT Line. It was the first underground station on the MRT network with side platforms due to space constraints.
Previous: Bishan (NS17/CC15)<br>Next: Toa Payoh (NS19)
Formerly the code was: N9

</doc>
<doc id="539296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539296" title="Boris Hybner">
Boris Hybner

Boris Hybner (August 5, 1941 — April 2, 2016) was a Czech actor and mime artist. In 2010, Hybner won the Thalia Award. He was known for his movies "Jára Cimrman Lying, Sleeping" (1983), "Dissolved and Effused" (1985), "Cosy Dens" (1999), "I'm All Good" (2008), "Toys in the Attic" (2009) and in "Marguerite" (2015).
Hybner died on April 2, 2016 in Prague at the age of 74 from an illness.

</doc>
<doc id="539298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539298" title="Nguyen Anh 9">
Nguyen Anh 9

Nguyen Anh 9 (born Nguyen Dinh Anh, January 1, 1940 – April 14, 2016) was a Vietnamese songwriter and pianist. 
He was born in Ninh Thuan Province, Vietnam on January 1, 1940. He was raised in Nha Trang and in Saigon. Nguyen Dinh Anh studied at Taberd until 1954 and went to Da Lat.
Nguyen Anh 9 started his songwriting career in a very accidental way when touring Japan with Khanh Ly. Nguyen Anh 9 played the guitar he was holding right away and sang: "Không! Không! Tôi không còn, tôi không còn yêu em nữa..." ("No! No! I'm no longer, I'm no longer in love with you..."). When coming back to Vietnam, Khanh Ly suggested he write this song. At her suggestion, he finished writing his first song in a short time.
The song "Không" (No) was first recorded by Khanh Ly on vinyl with the disc title "Tình ca quê hương" (Native land love songs). "Không" became one of the signature songs of Elvis Phuong's singing career, as well as some other Nguyen Anh 9's songs such as "Ai đưa em về" (Who takes you home), "Chia phôi" (Parting), "Một lời cuối cho em" (One last word for you)... many performed by Elvis Phuong on the stage of Queen Bee discothèque in Saigon in early 1970s.
In 1982, Nguyen Anh 9 returned to the music industry. He continued to take part in the concerts and piano shows in many places. Nguyen Anh 9 was also invited to write the soundtracks for some movies such as "Mảnh tình nghiệt ngã" (Ill-fated love affair), "Mênh mông tình buồn" (Immensely sad love).
He died of pneumonia and heart failure in Ho Chi Minh City, aged 76.

</doc>
<doc id="539299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539299" title="Gareth Thomas">
Gareth Thomas

Gareth Daniel Thomas (12 February 1945 – 13 April 2016) was a Welsh actor. He was best known for his role as Roj Blake in the BBC science fiction television series "Blake's 7", but appeared in many other movies and television programmes, including Shem in the ITV sci-fi series "Star Maidens" and Adam Brake in the fantasy series "Children of the Stones".
Thomas died of heart failure in Surrey, Greater London on 13 April 2016, aged 71.

</doc>
<doc id="539300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539300" title="Ahmed Brahim">
Ahmed Brahim

Ahmed Brahim (, "ʾAḥmad Ibrāhīm"; 14 June 1946 – 14 April 2016) was a Tunisian politician. He was the First Secretary of Ettajdid Movement and the leader of the Democratic Modernist Pole until April 2012, when his party merged into the Social Democratic Path of which he became the president. He was the Ettajdid Movement's candidate for President of Tunisia in the 2009 presidential election. He was a professor of French at the University of Tunis; his area of study was comparative linguistics.

</doc>
<doc id="539301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539301" title="Ray Thornton">
Ray Thornton

Raymond Hoyt "Ray" Thornton, Jr. (July 16, 1928 – April 13, 2016) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was a member of the U.S. Representative for Arkansas' 4th congressional district from 1973 to 1979 and the 2nd district from 1991 to 1997.
Thornton died in Little Rock, Arkansas on April 13, 2016, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="539303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539303" title="Chanhassen, Minnesota">
Chanhassen, Minnesota

Chanhassen is a city in Carver and Hennepin counties in the state of Minnesota. It is southwest of Minneapolis. The population was 22,952 at the 2010 census.
As of the census of 2010, there were 22,952 people, 8,352 households, and 6,257 families living in the city.
Chanhassen is home to several attractions that are well-recognized throughout the state and even nationally.
Chanhassen is located in Minnesota's 3rd congressional district, represented by Erik Paulsen, a Republican.
President George W. Bush was the first sitting United States president to visit Chanhassen.
Companies with headquarters in Chanhassen include:

</doc>
<doc id="539304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539304" title="William M. Gray">
William M. Gray

William "Bill" Mason Gray (October 9, 1929 – April 16, 2016) was Emeritus Professor of Atmospheric Science at Colorado State University (CSU), and the head of the Tropical Meteorology Project at CSU's Department of Atmospheric Sciences. He was widely regarded as a pioneer in the science of forecasting hurricanes and one of the world's leading experts on tropical storms. After retiring as a faculty member at CSU in 2005, Gray remained actively involved in both climate change and tropical cyclone research until his death.
Gray died in Fort Collins, Colorado on April 16, 2016, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="539305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539305" title="Category:Dardic languages">
Category:Dardic languages


</doc>
<doc id="539317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539317" title="Category:University of Melbourne alumni">
Category:University of Melbourne alumni


</doc>
<doc id="539318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539318" title="Newton MRT Station">
Newton MRT Station

Newton MRT Station (NS21/DT11) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station between the North South MRT Line and Downtown MRT Line. The station was formerly known as Newton Circus.
Previous: Newton (NS20)<br>Next: Orchard (NS22/TE14)
Previous: Stevens (DT10/TE11)<br>Next: Little India (DT12/NE7)

</doc>
<doc id="539321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539321" title="Canberra MRT Station">
Canberra MRT Station

Canberra MRT Station (NS12) is a future MRT Station in Singapore. It will be along the North South MRT Line.
Previous: Sembawang (NS11)<br>Next: Yishun (NS13)

</doc>
<doc id="539322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539322" title="Bayfront MRT Station">
Bayfront MRT Station

Bayfront MRT Station (CE1/DT16) MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station between Circle MRT Line and Downtown MRT Line.
Bayfront was the third station with Cross platform interchange. 

</doc>
<doc id="539331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539331" title="Peter Sellers (broadcaster)">
Peter Sellers (broadcaster)

Peter Heayne Joseph Sellers (1921/1922 – 22 April 2016) was a New Zealand sports broadcaster. He was born in the Wellington. He studied at Rongotai College. Sellers began working for the New Zealand Broadcasting Service in Wellington in 1952. He moved to Dunedin in 1958. He became one of the country's leading sports broadcasters, retiring in 1987. He was best known as a radio broadcaster, Sellers also presented a television sports show from the early 1960s until 1975.
Sellers died in Dunedin on 22 April 2016, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="539332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539332" title="Kit West">
Kit West

Kit West (1936 – 16 April 2016) was a British special effects artist. He was known for his work in "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and "Return of the Jedi". In his career, West has been nominated three times but won an Academy Awards for his work in special affects. He was born in London.
West died on 17 April 2016 in London, aged 79.

</doc>
<doc id="539333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539333" title="Zena Latto">
Zena Latto

Zena Latto (October 25, 1925 – April 5, 2016) was an American jazz clarinetist and saxophonist. During the 1940s and 1950s, she played with the big band the International Sweethearts of Rhythm. She bought a baritone saxophone to stay with that group and continued to perform with the Sweethearts until 1955. Latto performed with her own band the Modern Moods from 1955 to 1957.
Latto died in Jacksonville, Florida on April 5, 2016, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="539334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539334" title="E. M. Nathanson">
E. M. Nathanson

Erwin "Mick" Nathanson (February 17, 1928 – April 5, 2016) was an American author. He was known as the author of the 1965 novel "The Dirty Dozen". His book was made into a movie with the same name. He was born in The Bronx, New York.
Nathanson died at his home in Laguna Niguel, California from heart failure on April 5, 2016, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="539335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539335" title="Eunos MRT Station">
Eunos MRT Station

Eunos MRT Station (EW7) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. The station is located in Geylang East which is sometimes called Eunos.
Eunos MRT Station opened on 4 November 1989. The station features a Malay style roof. This style roof can also be found at Chinese Garden (EW25) and Lakeside (EW26).
Previous: Kembangan (EW6)<br>Next: Paya Lebar (EW8)
Formerly the code was: E6 (1989 - 2001)

</doc>
<doc id="539336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539336" title="One-north MRT Station">
One-north MRT Station

one-north MRT Station (CC23) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is part of the Circle MRT Line. The station was opened on 8 October 2011 and is the only one on the entire MRT whose name does not start with a capital letter. It is located between Buona Vista (CC22/EW21) and Kent Ridge (CC24) stations.

</doc>
<doc id="539342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539342" title="Shawkan">
Shawkan

Mahmoud Abou Zeid (Arabic محمود أبو زيد) or Shawkan (Arabic شوكان) is an Egyptian photojournalist. His photographs were published in many countries. He has been in prison without a trial since 2013, after he took photographs of a protest in Egypt.
Many Egyptian news organizations used Shawkan's photos. Shawkan's photos were in many international newspapers and magazines, including Time magazine, The Sun, Bild (a German newspaper) and Die Zeit. In 2010, Shawkan went to work for Demotix, a photo agency in London. During the Arab Spring, Shawkan took photos of the Tahir Square protests in Cairo.
In 2013, Shawkan took photos of protests against the Egyptian president, Mohamed Morsi in Cairo. Police arrested him. Two other photographers were arrested at the same time: Louis Jammes, a French photographer and Mike Giglio, a US reporter. Jammes and Giglio are free but Shawkan is still in prison.
In March 2015, Shawkan wrote a letter about his torture in prison. Shawkan's trial was scheduled for April 23, 2016. Shawkan went to court, but the court did not free him. The trial was changed to May 5.
In September 2016, Shawkan's photos were exhibited in New York at Bronx Documentary Center. His work was also shown at Photoville in New York.
In 2015 a photojournalism prize, The Shawkan Photo Awards, was named for Shawkan. The first winner was Islam Osama, who took a photo of the death of activist Shaimaa Sabbagh.
Shawkan was arrested on August 14, 2013 during protests against the government. More than 1000 people were killed and many protesters were arrested. Two other journalists were arrested at the same time, one from France and one from the United States. The foreign journalists were freed quickly, but Shawkan was charged with weapons possession, illegal assembly, murder and attempted murder. One of the other journalists, Mike Giglio, said Shawkan only had a camera.
Many organizations want freedom for Shawkan. The Committee to Protect Journalists made a statement. 
Amnesty International said he should be free. Orla Guerin from the BBC, Patrick Kingsley from the Guardian, and Peter Greste from Al-Jazeera, who was also in prison in Egypt, wrote to the Egyptian president.

</doc>
<doc id="539348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539348" title="Milltown, New Jersey">
Milltown, New Jersey

Milltown is a borough in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States.
The Lenape (Native American people) had settlements along the Lawrence Brook. It would soon be called Lawrence Brook Mill. The 1903 classic western film "The Great Train Robbery" was shot in Milltown.
In March 2010, the Milltown City Council voted against changing the name of Petain Avenue. They said it would be difficult for the residents if the name changed. Petain Avenue is named for Philippe Pétain, a French World War I general who became the leader of the Vichy France government during World War II. 
Milltown borough has a total area of of land and of water. The borough borders North Brunswick Township to the west and East Brunswick Township to the east.
As of July 1, 2015, the borough's population was 7,004.
The government of Milltown consists of a Mayor and a Borough Council. The council has six members. A Mayor is elected directly by the voters to a four-year term of office. In the 2009 election for governor, Republican Chris Christie received 56.2% of the vote (1,684 ballots cast), ahead of Democrat Jon Corzine with 33% (982 votes). Independent Chris Daggett received 261 votes (.09%). In this election 49% of registered voters came out to cast their votes.
The Milltown Public Schools serves students in public school for Kindergarten through eighth grade. For ninth through twelfth grades, public school students attend Spotswood High School in Spotswood.
, the borough had a total of of roadways.
New Jersey Transit provides local bus service on weekdays along the 811 route and Coach USA Suburban Transit provides NYC rush-hour commuter service on the 400 route.
The Raritan River Railroad used to run through Milltown. The track and freight station still remain.
People who were born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with Milltown include:

</doc>
<doc id="539367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539367" title="John Ericson">
John Ericson

John Ericson (sometimes spelled Erickson; September 25, 1926) is a German-American movie and television actor. He was known for his roles in "Pretty Boy Floyd" (1960), "Under Ten Flags" (1960), "Slave Queen of Babylon" (1963), "7 Faces of Dr. Lao" (1964), "" (1965), "The Money Jungle" (1968), "The Bamboo Saucer" (1968), "Bedknobs and Broomsticks" (1971), "Crash!" (1977), and "The Far Side of Jericho" (2006).

</doc>
<doc id="539368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539368" title="Ben Roy Mottelson">
Ben Roy Mottelson

Ben Roy Mottelson (born July 9, 1926) is an American-born Danish nuclear physicist. He won the 1975 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on the non-spherical geometry of atomic nuclei.
Mottelson was born in Chicago, Illinois. He graduated from Lyons Township High School in LaGrange, Illinois. He received a Bachelor's degree from Purdue University in 1947, and a Ph.D. in nuclear physics from Harvard University in 1950.
In 1950–51, James Rainwater (1917 – 1986) and Aage Bohr (1922 – 2009) had developed models of the atomic nucleus. It began learn the behaviour of the individual nucleons. Mottelson worked with Aage Bohr to share the theoretical models with experimental data. 
In three papers which were published in 1952–53, Bohr and Mottelson demonstrated close agreement between theory and experiment, for example showing that the energy levels of certain nuclei could be described by a rotation spectrum. This work stimulated new theoretical and experimental studies.
Rainwater, Bohr and Mottelson were jointly awarded the 1975 Nobel Prize in Physics "for the discovery of the connection between collective motion and particle motion in atomic nuclei and the development of the theory of the structure of the atomic nucleus based on this connection".
Bohr and Mottelson continued to work together, publishing a two-volume monograph, "Nuclear Structure". The first volume, "Single-Particle Motion," appeared in 1969, and the second volume, "Nuclear Deformations," in 1975.
Professor Mottelson is a member of the Board of Sponsors of The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.
He is a foreign fellow of Bangladesh Academy of Sciences and the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. In 1969, he won the Atoms for Peace Award.
Mottelson has dual citizenship. He has both Danish and American citizenship. He lives in Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Mottelson was married to Nancy Jane Reno from 1948 until her death in 1975. They had two sons and one daughter. Mottelson then married Britta Marger Siegumfeldt in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="539385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539385" title="Thamirabarani River">
Thamirabarani River

The Thamirabarani River is a river in India. It starts flowing from the peak Agastyarkoodam in the Western Ghats hills in Papanasam of Tirunelveli district, Tamil Nadu.
This river had the name of Porunai in ancient Tamil country. The name of Thamirabarani is assumed from the high content of Copper in this river. This copper content also makes the water of this river, sweet or tasty.
The Thamirabarani river runs through the districts of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi. The length of this river is 125 km. This river and its tributaries brings water to these districts. Therefore the water is used for irrigation purposes.
The tributaries of Thamirabarani river are Gadananathi River, Manimuthar River, Pachaiyar River etc. List of dams are constructed surrounding the river.

</doc>
<doc id="539391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539391" title="Isan language">
Isan language

Isan is the name for a number of closely related dialects which are spoken in the Northeast of Thailand and neighbouring countries. Isan is mostly used for informal communication. Isan consists of a number of dialects, there is no official language. People who speak one dialect usually understand the others. When Isan is written down, the Thai alphabet is used most of the time. Very rarely, the Lao alphabet, which is also used to write the Laotian language is used. About 20 milllion people speak the Isan language as their first language. About a third of the population of Thailand, and 80 % of the speakers of Laotian understand it.

</doc>
<doc id="539401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539401" title="Category:1970s in Asia">
Category:1970s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="539402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539402" title="Category:1950s in Asia">
Category:1950s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="539403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539403" title="Category:1960s in Asia">
Category:1960s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="539411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539411" title="Pierre-Joseph Redouté">
Pierre-Joseph Redouté

Pierre-Joseph Redouté (10 July 1759 – 19 June 1840), was a painter and botanist from the Southern Netherlands. He is known for his watercolours of roses, lilies and other flowers. He was nicknamed "the Raphael of flowers" and has been called the greatest botanical illustrator of all time. Many of the species he painted had never been illustrated before.
He was an official court artist of Queen Marie Antoinette, and he continued painting through the French Revolution and Reign of Terror.
For fifty years, Redouté was the drawing teacher to French queens and princesses. He dedicated "Choix des plus belles fleurs" to two of his students, Louise and Marie d’Orléans. Later, Marie d’Orléans became the first queen of the Belgians. 
Posthumously published, in 1989:

</doc>
<doc id="539422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539422" title="Sherman's March to the Sea">
Sherman's March to the Sea

Sherman's March to the Sea is the name given to the military Savannah Campaign in the American Civil War. This was a march of troops through Georgia that lasted from November 15 to December 21, 1864. It was lead by Maj. Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman of the Union Army.
The campaign began with Sherman's troops leaving the captured city of Atlanta, Georgia, on November 15. It ended with the capture of the port of Savannah on December 21. His army burned military targets along with stores, other businesses, and the homes of the people who lived in their path. This ruined the Confederacy's economy and its means of travelling. 
Sherman's plan of action of fighting deep inside enemy territory and without any extra supplies changed the way of thinking about how to fight a war.

</doc>
<doc id="539427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539427" title="Nina Arkhipova">
Nina Arkhipova

Nina Nikolayevna Arkhipova ("Нина Николаевна Архипова"; 1 May 1921 – 24 April 2016) was a Soviet-born Russian movie and stage actress. She was a People's Artist of the RSFSR (1988). She was known for her roles in "Bountiful Summer", "Prosnis i poy", "Burnt by the Summer". She was born in Omsk, USSR.
Arkhipova died in Moscow, Russia from complications of pneumonia on 24 April 2016, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="539435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539435" title="The Sweet Escape">
The Sweet Escape

The Sweet Escape is the second studio album by American recording artist Gwen Stefani, released on December 1, 2006 by Interscope Records.
Credits adapted from the liner notes of "The Sweet Escape".

</doc>
<doc id="539436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539436" title="Inge King">
Inge King

Inge King AM (26 November 1915 – 24 April 2016) was a German-born Australian sculptor. She received many public commissions. Her work is held in public and private collections. Her best known work is "Forward Surge" (1974) at the Melbourne Arts Centre. She became a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in January 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="539438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539438" title="Ron Brace">
Ron Brace

Ronald "Ron" Jeffery Brace III (December 18, 1986 – April 23, 2016) was an American football nose tackle. He was drafted by the New England Patriots in the second round of the 2009 NFL Draft as a defensive end. He played college football at Boston College. He played for the Patriots from 2009 through 2012.
Brace died suddenly from an apparent heart attack on April 23, 2016 in Springfield, Massachusetts at the age of 29.

</doc>
<doc id="539439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539439" title="Harry Perkowski">
Harry Perkowski

Harry Walter Perkowski (September 6, 1922 – April 20, 2016) was an American pitcher in Major League Baseball. He played between 1947 and 1955 for the Cincinnati Reds & Redlegs (1947, 1949–54) and Chicago Cubs (1955). He was listed at , , he batted and threw left-handed.
Perkowski died in Beckley, West Virginia on April 20, 2016, aged 93.

</doc>
<doc id="539440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539440" title="Emile Ford">
Emile Ford

Emile Ford (born Michael Emile Telford Miller, 16 October 1937 – 11 April 2016) was a Saint Lucian musician and singer. He was born in Castries. He was popular in the United Kingdom in the late 1950s and early 1960s as the leader of Emile Ford & the Checkmates. They had a number one hit in late 1959 with "What Do You Want to Make Those Eyes at Me For?". He also did pioneering work as a sound engineer.
Ford died in London on 11 April 2016, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="539441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539441" title="Darrell Hogan">
Darrell Hogan

Darrell Trayler Hogan (July 2, 1926 – April 6, 2016) was an American football player. He played five seasons with the Pittsburgh Steelers of the National Football League from 1949 through 1953
Hogan was born in San Antonio, Texas. He first studied at Baylor University before transferring to Trinity University. Hogan was raised in Hot Wells, Texas. He coached high school football and track and field in Texas after his playing days. He was inducted into the Trinity University Athletics Hall of Fame in 2003. 
Hogan died on April 6, 2016 from heart failure in Bandera, Texas, aged 89.

</doc>
<doc id="539442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539442" title="Royston Nash">
Royston Nash

Royston Hulbert Nash (July 23, 1933 – April 4, 2016) was an English conductor. He was best known as a music director of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company and, later, as the conductor of the Cape Cod Symphony Orchestra.
Nash was born in Southampton, England. 
His career as a conductor began with the Royal Marines from 1957 to 1970. He then joined D'Oyly Carte, becoming Music Director from 1971 to 1979. There, he led the company during its centenary year in 1975 and issued a number of recordings, including the company's only recordings of "Utopia, Limited", "The Grand Duke", and "The Zoo", as well as recordings of some rarely heard Sullivan music. 
He then moved to the United States, where he became musical director of the Cape Cod Symphony Orchestra, the Nashua Symphony Orchestra, and other ensembles, until his retirement in 2007. He also founded and conducted Symphony by the Sea.
Nash died at the McCarthy Care Center in East Sandwich, Massachusetts on April 4, 2016, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="539443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539443" title="Papa Wemba">
Papa Wemba

Jules Shungu Wembadio Pene Kikumba, or commonly know as Papa Wemba (June 14, 1949 – April 24, 2016) was a Congolese rumba (later known as soukous) singer and musician. He was one of Africa's most popular musicians, and known in world music. He was born in Lubefu, Sankuru District, Belgian Congo. He worked with Zaiko Langa Langa and Viva la Musica. 
Wemba, who suffered from epilepsy, died after suffering a seizure on stage in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire on April 24, 2016 at the age of 66.

</doc>
<doc id="539444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539444" title="Smelting">
Smelting

Smelting is the general term for getting a metal from its natural ore. Gold is an exception, because it is usually found as a pure metal. Other metals, like iron, copper, zinc, and silver, need to be got from their ore.
The process of smelting always involves heating the ore, and may also use a reducing agent like coke or charcoal. Most ores are oxides and this process removes the oxygen from the oxide, leaving behind the metal. The metal is still not pure, so then another process is needed. A flux is added, to clean and purify the metal. Limestone is the usual flux for this purpose. It removes the impurities as slag.
Beyond this, each metal has its own special methods. Producing iron from its ore is done in a blast furnace. Producing zinc or aluminium from their ores requires (in addition to heat) electrolysis.
Smelting is a key to the early civilisations. The earliest evidence of copper smelting dates from between 5500 BC and 5000 BC. The sites are in Pločnik and Belovode, Serbia.

</doc>
<doc id="539449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539449" title="River Wandle">
River Wandle

The River Wandle is a river in south-east England. The river runs through southwest London. 
Rain falls on the North Downs, filters through the chalk and emerges on the spring line. The river is first visible at Wandle Park in Croydon. It passes through the London Boroughs of Croydon, Sutton, Merton, and Wandsworth to join the River Thames at Wandsworth. The River Wandle is between 9 and 11 miles long. 
The river has been used since Roman times. It was heavily industrialised in the 17th and 18th centuries and was one of the most polluted rivers in England. 
In Victorian times the Wandle was one of hardest working rivers in the world. The river was used to power 68 water wheels, of which only a few survive, such as at Merton Abbey Mills.
On 17 September 2007, a chemical was accidentally flushed into the Wandle from Thames Water's Beddington sewage works. The chemical was being used to clean, but instead of being put back through the treatment works, it was accidentally put into the river. This resulted in over 2,000 fish of various species being killed. The company failed to tell the Environment Agency of the incident, as the site manager thought it wasn't important. 
Dry fly fishing was first started for catching trout from the river. Cleanups of the Wandle have improved the water quality, leading to a return of the river's once famous brown trout. This improvement in water quality has also seen other fish thrive. There are stocks of chub, roach and perch all flourishing once again with the most popular angling spots situated on the river at Colliers Wood. 
Also found in the River Wandle are water voles, otters, the common toad, and grey heron. Water voles usually live along rivers. Otters are one of the top river predators, feeding mainly on fish.
The river is managed with artificial channels, runoff ditches and a few underground stretches.

</doc>
<doc id="539450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539450" title="International Downtown Association">
International Downtown Association

International Downtown Association (IDA) is an international organization dedicated to the Downtowns city centers around the world. the organiztion is located in Washington D.C., United States. the organiztion was established in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="539454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539454" title="Michael Bond">
Michael Bond

Thomas Michael Bond, CBE (born 13 January 1926) is an English author. He was best known for his Paddington Bear series of books. Bond was awarded a CBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="539455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539455" title="Caldwell Esselstyn">
Caldwell Esselstyn

Caldwell Blakeman Esselstyn Jr. (born December 12, 1933) is an American physician, author and former Olympic rowing champion.
Esselstyn is the author of "Prevent and Reverse Heart Disease" (2007). It argues for a low-fat, whole foods, plant-based diet that avoids all animal products, as well as reducing or avoiding soybeans, nuts, avocados and oils. The diet has been used by former U.S. President Bill Clinton.

</doc>
<doc id="539456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539456" title="T. Colin Campbell">
T. Colin Campbell

T. Colin Campbell (born, January 1, 1934) is an American biochemist. He works in the effect of nutrition on long-term health. He is the Jacob Gould Schurman Professor Emeritus of Nutritional Biochemistry at Cornell University.
Campbell has become known for his advocacy of a low-fat, whole foods, plant-based diet. He is the author of over 300 research papers and three books, "The China Study" (2005, co-authored with his son, Thomas M. Campbell II), which became one of America's best-selling books about nutrition), "Whole" (2013) and "The Low-Carb Fraud" (2014). Campbell featured in the 2011 American documentary "Forks Over Knives".

</doc>
<doc id="539457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539457" title="Jeff Merkley">
Jeff Merkley

Jeffrey Alan "Jeff" Merkley (born October 24, 1956) is an American politician. He is the junior United States Senator from Oregon. He is a member of the Democratic Party. 
Merkley was a five-term member of the Oregon House of Representatives representing House District 47, located in eastern Multnomah County within the Portland city limits. He also served as Speaker of the Oregon House of Representatives.
He defeated two-term Republican incumbent Gordon Smith in the 2008 U.S. Senate election and easily defeated Monica Wehby in the 2014 U.S. Senate election.
Merkely was the first member of the Senate to endorse Bernie Sanders in his bid for the Democratic nomination for President.

</doc>
<doc id="539462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539462" title="Thinle Lhondup">
Thinle Lhondup

Thinle Lhondup (), also known as Thinley or Thinlen, (1943/1944 – April 24, 2016) was a popular Nepalese actor. He was best known for his role in the Academy Award-nominated movie "Himalaya" (1999). Thinle appears in some music videos in Nepal as well. 
Thinle died on April 24, 2016 in Kathmandu, Nepal from stomach cancer, aged 72.

</doc>
<doc id="539463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539463" title="Perry O. Hooper, Sr.">
Perry O. Hooper, Sr.

Perry Oliver Hooper, Sr. (April 8, 1925 – April 24, 2016), was an American jurist. He served as the twenty-seventh Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court from 1995 to 2001. He was the first Republican since Reconstruction to have been elected to his state's highest court.
Hooper died at his home in Montgomery, Alabama on April 24, 2016, aged 91.

</doc>
<doc id="539467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539467" title="Benjamin Manglona">
Benjamin Manglona

Benjamin Taisacan Manglona (March 31, 1938 – April 24, 2016) was a Northern Mariana Islands politician and civil engineer. He was the island's longest serving elected official having served as a congressman, senator, and former mayor of Rota (the third largest island in the island's chain). 
Manglona served as the third Lieutenant Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands of the Northern Mariana Islands from 1990 to 1994 and as Mayor of Rota from 1998 to 2006.
Manglona died on April 24, 2016 in Rota, Northern Mariana Islands from a stroke, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="539471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539471" title="Air Niugini">
Air Niugini

Air Niugini is the flag carrier airline of Papua New Guinea. Port Moresby Airport is their main hub. Air Niugini was founded in 1973. The airline started international flights to Australia in 1975. The airline got its first widebody airplane in 1984. The 1990s were tough times for Air Niugini. To survive, the government helped the airline by cutting jobs and lowering wages at the airline. In 2003, Air Niugini made its first profit in many years. The airline flies to 35 cities and has 33 airplanes as of 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="539473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539473" title="Vera Vasilyeva">
Vera Vasilyeva

Vera Vasilyeva Kuzminichna (born 30 September 1925) is a Soviet-born Russian movie and stage actress. She was honored with People's Artist of the USSR in 1986. She was twice awarded the Stalin Prize in 1948 and in 1951. She was known for her roles in "Bride with a Dowry" (1954), "Pokhozhdeniya zubnogo vracha" (1965) and "Bezumnyy den ili zhenitba Figaro" (1974). Her career began in 1943.
Vasilyeva was born in Moscow. She was married to actor Vladimir Ushakov until his death in 2011. They had no children.

</doc>
<doc id="539485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539485" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:Episode table">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:Episode table


</doc>
<doc id="539495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539495" title="Miguel Picazo">
Miguel Picazo

Miguel Picazo (27 March 1927 – 23 April 2016) was a Spanish movie director, screenwriter and actor. He is best known for directing his first movie "La Tía Tula" "(Aunt Tula)" (1964). He was also an actor. He was in "The Spirit of the Beehive" (1973) and "Tesis" (1996). He retired in 1997.
Picazo died in Madrid, Spain on 23 April 2016, aged 89.

</doc>
<doc id="539496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539496" title="Tommy Kono">
Tommy Kono

Tamio "Tommy" Kono (June 27, 1930 – April 24, 2016) was an American weightlifter in the 1950s and 1960s.
Kono was the only Olympic weightlifter in history to have set world records in four different weight classes: lightweight (149 pounds or 67.5 kilograms), middleweight (165 lb or 75 kg), light-heavyweight (182 lb or 82.5 kg), and middle-heavyweight (198 lb or 90 kg).
In 1993 Kono was elected to the International Weightlifting Federation Hall of Fame. Kono was also an inductee to the Association of Oldetime Barbell and Strongmen (A.O.B.S.) Hall of Fame.
Kono died on April 24, 2016 in Honolulu, Hawaii from complications of liver disease, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="539500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539500" title="Category:Soviet movie actors">
Category:Soviet movie actors


</doc>
<doc id="539501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539501" title="Category:Soviet television actors">
Category:Soviet television actors


</doc>
<doc id="539502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539502" title="Category:Gwen Stefani">
Category:Gwen Stefani


</doc>
<doc id="539545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539545" title="Family Portrait">
Family Portrait

Family Portrait or Družinski portret is a painting by artist France Kralj (1895—1960). Kralj painted the picture in 1926. The size of the painting is 45 in. by 51 in. (115.5 cm by 130.3 cm). The material is oil on canvas. The painting is in the Museum of Modern Art in Ljubljana. 
The title of the painting in Slovenian language is "Družinski portret". The painting shows Kralj, his wife, and his child. They are leaving his studio after work. The painting is an example of the New Objectivity style of art in Slovenia. 
There are two special things about the painting. First, the painting shows the artist's personal life. Kralj did not usually use his personal life as a subject for paintings. In this painting, there is no emotional or sentimental part element. This is usual in paintings of the New Objectivity style. They showed concrete people and objects without their qualities or symbolism.
Second, the painting shows a sculpture in the part of the picture that is nearest to and in front of the viewer. The sculpture is a finished work. It is a sculpture of his wife and child.
Kralj went to Vienna in 1913 to study sculpture. In 1915 he stopped his studies because of the war. In 1919 he returned from the war and went to study in Prague for two years. From 1920-1923, Kralj was in the center of the Slovenian expressionism movement. Expressionism explores philosophical themes. Kralj left the expressionism movement and was soon in the center of the Slovenian "new reality" movement. The "new reality" style uses designs of everyday life. 

</doc>
<doc id="539547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539547" title="France Kralj">
France Kralj

France Kralj (September 26, 1895 — February 2, 1960) was an artist. He was important in Slovenian expressionism and in the later new reality style. In the 50s, he started making monotype prints.
France Kralj was born in Zagorica in Dobrepolje, Slovenia. His mother was Margareti (born Sever) and his father was Janezu Kralj. His brother Tone was born in 1900 and another brother Ignacij (Igo) in 1906.
SloveniaKralj went to elementary school in Dobrepolje from 1901 to 1907. He went to an art and craft school in Ljubljana, in 1907. Then he studied wood and stone sculpture in Ljubljana until 1912. From 1912 to 1913 he was an assistant in the workshop of Aloysius Podlogarja in Celovcu. 
In 1913 Kralj studied sculpture in Vienna, Austria. In 1915 he stopped his studies because of the start of World War I. In 1919 he studied in Prague, Czech Republic for two years. For many years he was a professor at the Ljubljana Secondary Technical School. In 1933 his autobiography "Moja pot" (My way) was published. In 1937 he won a prize at the world exhibition in Paris for his sculpture "Zrebe" (Foal).
From 1920-1923, Kralj was in the center of Slovenian expressionism. Then he left the philosophical themes for designs of everyday life in the style of the "new reality".
The Božidar Jakac Gallery opened a permanent collection of Kralj's work in 1983. It has paintings, drawings, prints, and sculptures. The collection has some works in the expressionist style, the new realities style, and many abstract monotypes of farmers, animals, and landscapes. Kraj's painting "Družinski portret" or "Family Portrait" is an example of the New Objectivity art style in Slovenia.

</doc>
<doc id="539557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539557" title="Canola">
Canola

Canola refers to both an edible oil (canola oil) and a type of Brassicaceae plant.
The plant is a cultivar of "Brassica napus", "Brassica rapa" or "Brassica juncea". They are well known for their seeds, from which the canola cooking oil is made. The oil is widely used for preparing food, it is also good for people's health because it has very little saturated fat and a lot of polyunsaturated fats.
Besides cooking, there are also other ways to use canola oil. One of these is to produce biodiesel fuel for cars and trucks.

</doc>
<doc id="539561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539561" title="2014–15 La Liga - Results of second round">
2014–15 La Liga - Results of second round

This is the Results of the second round of 2014–15 La Liga.

</doc>
<doc id="539574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539574" title="Solomon Airlines">
Solomon Airlines

Solomon Airlines is the flag carrier airline of the Solomon Islands. It started in 1962. 

</doc>
<doc id="539581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539581" title="California Democratic primary, 2016">
California Democratic primary, 2016

The 2016 California Democratic primary was held on June 7 in the U.S. state of California. The primary was nonpartisan, meaning the candidates were not divided based on their political party. Hillary Clinton won the primary with 53.07% of the popular vote.
Other primaries/caucuses occurred on the same day. Those states included Montana, New Jersey, New Mexico, North and South Dakota.
In 2015, Hillary Clinton dominated the polls. It slowly become a close call between Clinton and Bernie Sanders. The most recent poll before the primary, which was conducted by Fox News from April 18-21, 2016, says that Clinton has 48% of the vote compared to 46% for Sanders. The sample size was 623 people with a 4% margin of error.

</doc>
<doc id="539584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539584" title="Paul Frees">
Paul Frees

Solomon Hersh Frees (June 22, 1920 – November 2, 1986), better known as Paul Frees, was an American actor, voice actor, impressionist, comedian and screenwriter. He was best known for his work with MGM, Walter Lantz, and Walt Disney theatrical cartoons in the 1950s through the 1980s and for providing the voice of Boris Badenov in "The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show". He became known as "The Man of a Thousand Voices." He is also known for being the original voice of Ludwig Von Drake from 1961 until his death in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="539585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539585" title="Yemanzhelinsk">
Yemanzhelinsk

Yemanzhelinsk (Russian: Еманжели́нск) is a town and administrative centre in the Yemanzhelinsky District in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia. It is located near the Kazakhstan border, and is on the eastern slopes of the Southern Ural Mountains. Yemanzhelinsk was founded in 1770 by the Cossacks. The population was 30,216 at the 2010 census.
Yemanzhelinsk was founded in 1770 as a Cossack village and was named Yemanzhelinskaya () since 1866. It became a coal mining settlement in the early 1930s, and was granted town status on September 25, 1951. The chelyabinsk meteor landed close to Yemanzhelinsk.

</doc>
<doc id="539587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539587" title="Chelyabinsk Oblast">
Chelyabinsk Oblast

Chelyabinsk Oblast (Russian: Челя́бинская о́бласть, "Chelyabinskaya oblast") is a province (an oblast) in Russia. It is around the Ural Mountains, on the border between Europe and Asia. Its administrative center is the city of Chelyabinsk. As of 2010, the population is 3,476,217.
Its elevation is 200–250 meters above sea level.
Most of the oblast falls under the Humid continental climate, meaning the area has warm/mild summers with cold winters.
The 2010 census showed these are the ethnic groups in the oblast:
The death rate was higher than the birth rate in 2010, but has since slowly reversed.
A 2012 survey showed these are the major religions in the oblast:

</doc>
<doc id="539591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539591" title="Ray Fisher (actor)">
Ray Fisher (actor)

Ray Fisher (born 1988) is an American movie, television and stage actor. He is best known for his roles in the comedy "The Good, the Bad and the Confused". Ray played Muhammad Ali in Will Power's Fetch Clay Make Man in 2013. He is mainly known for playing Victor Stone / Cyborg in the DC Extended Universe such as in "" and in the upcoming "Justice League". Sometime in 2020, Fisher will be in a Cyborg movie.

</doc>
<doc id="539593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539593" title="Martin Gray (Holocaust survivor)">
Martin Gray (Holocaust survivor)

Martin Gray (born Mieczysław Grajewski; 27 April 1922 – 25 April 2016) was a Polish Holocaust survivor. He was born in Warsaw. He emigrated to the West, and has published books in French about his experiences during World War II in which his family was killed in Poland. Gray's first book, "For Those I Loved" ("Au nom de tous les miens"), became a bestseller.
He moved to Belgium in 2001. On 25 April 2016, he was found dead in his swimming pool at his home in Ciney, Belgium. He died of a suspected heart attack. He was aged 93.

</doc>
<doc id="539597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539597" title="Harris Wofford">
Harris Wofford

Harris Llewellyn Wofford, Jr. (born April 9, 1926) is an American politician. He is a member of the Democratic Party who represented Pennsylvania in the United States Senate from 1991 to 1995. 
Wofford was also the fifth president of Bryn Mawr College from 1970 to 1978, served as Chairman of the Pennsylvania Democratic Party in 1986, as Pennsylvania Secretary of Labor and Industry in the cabinet of Governor Robert P. Casey from 1987 to 1991 and was a surrogate for Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign. 
He introduced Obama in Philadelphia at the National Constitution Center before Obama's speech on race in America, "A More Perfect Union".
In 1948, Wofford married Clare Lindgren and they later had three children. She died in 1996. In 2016, Wofford announced that he would marry Matthew Charlton, his companion of many years.

</doc>
<doc id="539608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539608" title="Jory Prum">
Jory Prum

Jory Prum (January 31, 1975 – April 22, 2016), also known as Jory K. Prum, was an American audio engineer. He was best known for his work in movie and video games. He was the owner of a recording studio located in the San Francisco Bay Area. He worked many games but most famously "The Walking Dead", "The Wolf Among Us", and "Brütal Legend".
Prum was killed in a motorcycle accident on April 22, 2016 in San Francisco, California, aged 41.

</doc>
<doc id="539614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539614" title="Manuel de la Torre (golfer)">
Manuel de la Torre (golfer)

Manuel de la Torre (6 October 1921 – 24 April 2016) was a Spanish-born American golf teacher. He was thought as being one of golf's top teachers. His career includes playing on tour, head golf professional at Milwaukee Country Club one of America's most famous golf clubs, and a career of teaching both tour professional and amateur golfers. He was born in Madrid, Spain.
Among the tour professionals he has taught are Masters champion Tommy Aaron, U.S. Women's Open champion Carol Mann, du Maurier Classic champion Martha Nause and Women's British Open champion Sherri Steinhauer. He was the first member of the PGA to be awarded their Teacher of the Year Award in 1986. He was one of only several golf instructors to be inducted into both the World Golf Teachers Hall of Fame as well as the PGA Hall of Fame.
De la Torre won many golf tournaments, including the Wisconsin State Open five times and the Wisconsin PGA Professional Championship five times. He was elected to the Wisconsin Golf Hall of Fame in 1975. In 1999 he was inducted into the Northwestern University Athletic Hall of Fame.
De la Torre died on 24 April 2016 at his home in Milwaukee, Wisconsin from complications of a stroke, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="539627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539627" title="Fallout 4">
Fallout 4

Fallout 4 is an action role-playing video game which was created by Bethesda Game Studios and released by Bethesda Softworks. It is the fifth video game in the "Fallout" series and was released around the world on November 10, 2015 for Microsoft Windows as well as the consoles PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
The game is played in in the year 2287, in the city of Boston. The world is destroyed from a war in the year 2077. 
"Fallout 4" was officially announced in June 2015. It was generally given good ratings by critics. The Microsoft Windows version of the game sold 1.2 million copies. 

</doc>
<doc id="539637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539637" title="Category:The Holocaust">
Category:The Holocaust

The main page about this subject is The Holocaust.

</doc>
<doc id="539639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539639" title="Category:21st century in South America">
Category:21st century in South America


</doc>
<doc id="539640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539640" title="Category:21st century by continent">
Category:21st century by continent


</doc>
<doc id="539641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539641" title="Category:21st century in North America">
Category:21st century in North America


</doc>
<doc id="539642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539642" title="Category:Centuries in North America">
Category:Centuries in North America


</doc>
<doc id="539649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539649" title="Samaritans (charity)">
Samaritans (charity)

The Samaritans is a charity in the United Kingdom and Ireland. They are a support group for those at risk of suicide. 
"The Samaritans," was founded on November 5, 1953 by Chad Varah, a vicar. He started as a man "willing to listen". His approach was considered controversial at the time. "Everyone thought suicidal people were mad," he said. "But they just needed to be listened to." Today there are over 21,000 volunteers in 201 locations. Varah retired from the Samaritans in 1986.
A large amount of Samaritans' work is a telephone hotline, which is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. They also offer a drop-in service for face-to-face discussion. Samaritans also offer confidential Email support. The Samaritans volunteers are trained in counselling skills, so they do not judge people.
Samaritans have a strict code of confidentiality, even after the death of a caller. Unless the caller gives consent to pass on information, it will be broken only in rare circumstances.
Through its email service, Samaritans' work has extended well beyond the UK and Ireland, as messages are received from all around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="539668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539668" title="Category:Georgia (U.S. state) in fiction">
Category:Georgia (U.S. state) in fiction


</doc>
<doc id="539669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539669" title="Category:20th century in Cuba">
Category:20th century in Cuba


</doc>
<doc id="539671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539671" title="Category:21st century in Cuba">
Category:21st century in Cuba


</doc>
<doc id="539692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539692" title="Category:Sockpuppets of AdrianHernandez1">
Category:Sockpuppets of AdrianHernandez1


</doc>
<doc id="539693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539693" title="Category:Suspected sockpuppets of Dsfsswec">
Category:Suspected sockpuppets of Dsfsswec


</doc>
<doc id="539694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539694" title="Eixample">
Eixample

Eixample is a district of Barcelona, Spain.
There are six administrative neighborhoods in Eixample which are below:

</doc>
<doc id="539697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539697" title="Category:1990s establishments in Florida">
Category:1990s establishments in Florida


</doc>
<doc id="539710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539710" title="Category:1990s erotic movies">
Category:1990s erotic movies


</doc>
<doc id="539711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539711" title="Category:American erotic movies">
Category:American erotic movies


</doc>
<doc id="539742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539742" title="Amanullah Khan (activist)">
Amanullah Khan (activist)

Amanullah Khan (24 August 1934 – 26 April 2016) was a Pakistani activist and writer. He was born in Astore. He was the founding leader of the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front. It was a pro-independence militant activist group in the former state of Jammu and Kashmir. 
He was the co-founder of the Kashmir Independent Committee in 1963. He was elected Secretary General of JK Plebiscite Front (PF) in 1965. He Co-founded the JK National Liberation Front (NLF) with Maqbool Bhat.
Khan died on 26 April 2016 at a hospital from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="539743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539743" title="The Lego Batman Movie">
The Lego Batman Movie

The Lego Batman Movie (seen as The LEGO Batman Movie) is an upcoming 2017 American 3D computer-animated action-comedy superhero movie. It is directed by Chris McKay and produced by Dan Lin, Roy Lee, Phil Lord and Chris Miller. The movie is written by Seth Grahame-Smith. 
It is a spin-off of the 2014 movie "The Lego Movie". It is based on the DC Comics character Batman. It will star Will Arnett as Batman, Ralph Fiennes as Alfred, Michael Cera as Robin, Rosario Dawson as Batgirl, Zach Galifianakis as The Joker, and Mariah Carey as the Mayor of Gotham City.
The movie is to be released in the United States on February 10, 2017 through Warner Bros. Pictures.

</doc>
<doc id="539745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539745" title="Klaus Siebert">
Klaus Siebert

Klaus Siebert (29 April 1955 – 24 April 2016) was a German biathlete and biathlon coach. Hed raced for East Germany. 
Siebert won a silver medal at the 1980 Olympics in Lake Placid, New York on the relay with the East German relay team. In the Biathlon World Championships, Siebert has two gold medals with the East German relay team in 1978 and 1979, and a bronze medal from 1977. He also has three individual medals gold medal from the 20 km in 1978 and two bronzes from the 10 km in 1975 and 1978.
Siebert died on 24 April 2016 from lymphoma in Altenberg, Germany, aged 60.

</doc>
<doc id="539746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539746" title="Lucy Kibaki">
Lucy Kibaki

Lucy Muthoni Kibaki (1940 – 26 April 2016) was a Kenyan socialite and philanthropist. She was the wife of former Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki. They were married in 1962. She was the First Lady of Kenya from 2002 to 2013. Kibaki was known for supporting disadvantaged and disabled people. She chaired the Organization of the 40 African First Ladies Against HIV/Aids.
Kibaki died on April 26, 2016, at Bupa Cromwell Hospital in London from a heart attack after suffering from a long-illness, aged 75.

</doc>
<doc id="539747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539747" title="Bronchospasm">
Bronchospasm

Bronchospasm or a bronchial spasm is a sudden tightening of the muscles in the walls of the bronchioles. It is caused by the release (degranulation) of substances from mast cells or basophils because of anaphylatoxins. It causes difficulty in breathing which can be very mild to severe. Bronchospasms can be caused by asthma, chronic bronchitis and anaphylaxis. 
Bronchospasms are a serious potential complication of placing a breathing tube during general anesthesia. Some of the things that can cause bronchospasms are: consuming foods, taking medicines, allergic responses to insects, and hormone levels, particularly in women.

</doc>
<doc id="539748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539748" title="Mei Baojiu">
Mei Baojiu

Mei Baojiu () (29 March, 1934 – 25 April, 2016) was a Chinese contemporary Peking opera artist. He was also a performer of the Dan role type in Peking Opera and Kunqu opera. He was the leader of Mei Lanfang Peking Opera troupe in Beijing Peking Opera Theatre. Mei’s regular performances of opera include "Farewell My Concubine", "Guifei Intoxicated" (貴妃醉酒), "Lady General Mu Takes Command" (穆桂英挂帅), "The story of Yang Guifei" (太真外传), "Luo Shen" (洛神), and "Xi Shi" (西施).
On 31 March 2016, Mei was hospitalized in Beijing because of bronchospasm. He died on 25 April 2016, at the age of 82.

</doc>
<doc id="539749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539749" title="Malick Sidibé">
Malick Sidibé

Malick Sidibé (born 1935 or 1936 – April 14, 2016) was a Malian photographer. He was known for his black-and-white studies of popular culture in the 1960s in Bamako. During his life, Sidibé gained an international fame and was considered, along with Seydou Keïta, Mali's most famous photographer. His work has been the subject of a number of publications and been exhibited throughout Europe, and in the United States. 
Sidibé died on April 14, 2016 of complications from diabetes in Bamako, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="539751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539751" title="Éverton Ribeiro">
Éverton Ribeiro

Éverton Augusto de Barros Ribeiro (born 10 April 1989), known as Éverton Ribeiro, is a Brazilian footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or winger for Emirati club Al-Ahli, and the Brazil national football team.
Formed at Corinthians, after a loan at São Caetano he was sold to Coritiba in 2011, winning the Campeonato Paranaense in both of his seasons. He also won Série A twice at Cruzeiro, being voted the best player of each season, and joined Al-Ahli for €15 million in 2014.
A full international since 2014, Ribeiro repesented Brazil at the 2015 Copa América.

</doc>
<doc id="539756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539756" title="Muriqui">
Muriqui

The muriquis, or woolly spider monkeys, are the genus Brachyteles. There are two species, the southern ("B. arachnoides") and northern muriqui ("B. hypoxanthus") muriquis. The name "muriqui" comes from a native Tupi word meaning 'largest monkey'.
They are the two largest New World monkeys. The northern muriqui is one of the most endangered monkeys in the world. They are seen only in some forests in Brazil.
The adult muriqui is 15-23 inches (38–58 cm) long and weighs from 10-20 pounds (4.5-9 kilos) They are colored from brown to black and the bottom of their tails have no fur near the end.
Muriquis live in groups from four to 43. They do not fight about their territory. They mostly eat leaves. They sometimes eat fruit and flowers in the rainy season, as well as bark, bamboo, ferns, nectar, pollen, and seeds.

</doc>
<doc id="539757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539757" title="Pacific giant salamander">
Pacific giant salamander

Pacific giant salamanders ("Dicamptodon") are a family and genus of large salamanders.
The salamanders may grow up to long, and are found in the western USA and southwestern British Columbia. Apart from their large size, they are like the mole salamander family (Ambystomatidae).
Most salamanders are silent but the Pacific giant salamander can make noise. The adults can live on land or in water.
The genus has four species: Cope's giant salamander ("D. copei"), the Idaho giant salamander ("D. aterrimus"), the coastal giant salamander ("D. tenebrosus"), and the California giant salamander ("D. ensatus").

</doc>
<doc id="539761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539761" title="Azure kingfisher">
Azure kingfisher

The azure kingfisher ("Alcedo azurea") is a small kingfisher (), in the river kingfisher family, Alcedinidae. It lives in parts of Australia and Tasmania, as well as New Guinea and some nearby islands, and out to North Maluku and Romang.
It is named for the azure color on its back. Its feet are red with only two front toes. White spots between the eyes and beak may help it scare predators.
The azure kingfisher lives at the side of bodies of water such as creeks, lakes, swamps, tidal estuaries and mangroves. It can dive quickly from a perch above water. It feeds on freshwater crayfish and small fish. It builds its nest in a chamber up to 1 meter long in a creek bank. 5–7 white, round eggs. Its call is a high-pitched, 'pseet-pseet'.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="539817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539817" title="Austin Dillon">
Austin Dillon

Austin Dillon is a professional NASCAR driver. He currently drives the #3 Cheerios/Dow Automotive Chevrolet SS for Richard Childress Racing. In addition, he also drives the #2 Rheem Camaro in the NASCAR XFINITY Series.

</doc>
<doc id="539826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539826" title="Kasey Kahne">
Kasey Kahne

Kasey Kahne is a professional NASCAR driver. He drives the #5 Farmers Insurance Chevrolet SS for Hendrick Motorsports.

</doc>
<doc id="539832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539832" title="Category:1989 disasters">
Category:1989 disasters


</doc>
<doc id="539833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539833" title="Category:1985 disasters">
Category:1985 disasters


</doc>
<doc id="539834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539834" title="Category:Disasters by decade">
Category:Disasters by decade


</doc>
<doc id="539836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539836" title="Category:Disasters by year">
Category:Disasters by year


</doc>
<doc id="539839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539839" title="2016 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A">
2016 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A

The 2016 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A will be the 60th season of the Série A, the top-level of professional football in Brazil. Corinthians come in as the defending champions having won the title in the 2015 season.

</doc>
<doc id="539865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539865" title="Rubén Mendoza Ayala">
Rubén Mendoza Ayala

Rubén Mendoza Ayala (2 February 1961 – 16 April 2016) was a Mexican politician. He was a member of the Party of the Democratic Revolution. He served as Deputy of the LVII and LIX Legislatures of the Mexican Congress. He served from 2014 until his death in 2016. He represented the State of Mexico.
Ayala was born in Tlalnepantla de Baz, Mexico. He studied at National Autonomous University of Mexico. Ayala died of cardiac arrest on 16 April 2016 in Ciudad del Carmen, aged 55.

</doc>
<doc id="539866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539866" title="Petr Nečas">
Petr Nečas

Petr Nečas (born 19 November 1964) is a Czech former politician. He served as 9th Prime Minister of Czech Republic and leader of the Civic Democratic Party from 2010 to 2013. He was former Ministry of Defence (21 December 2012 – 19 March 2013) and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs (4 September 2006 – 8 May 2009).

</doc>
<doc id="539867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539867" title="Jan Fischer (politician)">
Jan Fischer (politician)

Jan Fisher (born 2 January 1951) is a Czech politician. He was Prime Minister of the Czech Republic from May 2009 to June 2010. Later he was Minister of Finance from July 2013 to January 2014. In 2013 Fischer ran in the presidential election. In the first round of the election, held in January 2013, he placed third with 16.35% of the vote (841,437 votes).

</doc>
<doc id="539879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539879" title="Cyril Leonoff">
Cyril Leonoff

Cyril Edel Leonoff (February 22, 1925 – April 17, 2016) was a Canadian civil engineer, historian and author. He was the founding president of the Jewish Historical Society of British Columbia. He was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba. 
Leonoff died on April 17, 2016 in Vancouver, British Columbia from natural causes, aged 91.

</doc>
<doc id="539880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539880" title="Avril Henry">
Avril Henry

Avril Henry (c.1934 – 20 April 2016) was a British activist. She wanted the legalization of assisted suicide by euthanasia. She was a former professor of English medieval culture at the University of Exeter.
Henry committed suicide by euthanasia at her home in Brampford Speke, Devon on 20 April 2016, aged 81. She illegally bought a euthanasia kit online before her death.

</doc>
<doc id="539881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539881" title="Arauco War">
Arauco War

The Arauco War was a conflict between colonial Spaniards and Mapuche people of Araucanía region, of modern Chile. This conflict began at Reynogüelén in 1536, near the confluence of the Ñuble and Itata rivers. It was between an expedition of Diego de Almagro and a large, well organized group of Mapuche soldiers. Since 1609, each governor of Chile held "Parlamentos" with Mapuche chiefs. At these, they discussed maintenance of a treaty between both parties. Violations of the treaty were frequent. In 1881, these finally ended, with a process known as the Pacification of Araucanía.

</doc>
<doc id="539884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539884" title="Vincent Darius">
Vincent Darius

Vincent Matthew Darius, OP (6 September 1955 – 26 April 2016) was Grenadian Roman Catholic official. He was the Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint George's in Grenada from 2002 until his death in 2016. He was born in the village of Crochu. He was ordained on 28 June 1987.
Darius died from cancer in Bellevue, New York on 26 April 2016, aged 60.

</doc>
<doc id="539885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539885" title="Harry Wu">
Harry Wu

Harry Wu (February 8, 1937 – April 26, 2016; ) was a Chinese-born American human rights activist. Wu spent 19 years in Chinese labor camps. He was born in Shanghai. He was a resident and citizen of the United States. In 1992, he founded the Laogai Research Foundation. 
Among Wu's supporters was the AFL-CIO. In 1990, Senators Alan Cranston (D-Calif.), and Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) invited Wu to testify before the Senate on the laogai. In November 2008, Wu opened the Laogai Museum in Washington, D.C.. He called it the first ever United States museum to talk about human rights in China.
Wu died from a heart attack while on a trip in Tegucigalpa, Honduras on April 26, 2016, aged 79.

</doc>
<doc id="539886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539886" title="Carlos Altamirano">
Carlos Altamirano

Carlos Altamirano Orrego (born December 18, 1922) is a Chilean lawyer. He is one of the most influential politicians of Chilean socialism. He was the general secretary of the Chilean Socialist Party (PS). He served from 1971 through 1979. He was deputy from 1961 to 1965 and senator from 1965 to 1973. He was born in Santiago, Chile.
He escaped after Pinochet's coup d'état on September 11, 1973. He lived as a refugee in Cuba. As a young man he was an athlete, winning medals in the high jump event at the 1946 and 1947 South American Championships in Athletics. He returned to Chile after the end of Pinochet's dictatorship in 1993.

</doc>
<doc id="539887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539887" title="Sergio Onofre Jarpa">
Sergio Onofre Jarpa

Sergio Onofre Jarpa Reyes (born 8 March 1921) is a Chilean politician. He was born in Rengo, Chile. 
Jarpa served as a member of the cabinet during the government of Augusto Pinochet. He served as Minister of the Interior from 1983 through 1985. Before becoming minister, Jarpa was a Member of the Senate from May 1973 through September 1973 and again from 1990 through 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="539893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539893" title="Regulation 261/2004">
Regulation 261/2004

Regulation 261/2004 is a regulation by the European Commission providing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, flight cancellations, or long delays of flights.

</doc>
<doc id="539914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539914" title="Chub">
Chub

Chub is a common fish name. It is used for a number of ray-finned fish in several families and genera. In Europe, the term "chub" usually refers to the European chub ("Squalius cephalus").

</doc>
<doc id="539930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539930" title="Category:Anime and Manga Terms">
Category:Anime and Manga Terms


</doc>
<doc id="539944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539944" title="Chase Elliott">
Chase Elliott

Chase Elliott is a professional NASCAR driver. In 2016, he replaced Jeff Gordon as the driver of the #24 car for Hendrick Motorsports. He is the son of NASCAR hall of famer Bill Elliott. He won the 2014 NASCAR XFINITY Series Championship.

</doc>
<doc id="539970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539970" title="Category:Wikipedians in Singapore">
Category:Wikipedians in Singapore


</doc>
<doc id="539984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539984" title="Tropical Storm Erika">
Tropical Storm Erika

Tropical Storm Erika in August 2015 was a very damaging and deadly tropical cyclone. The storm struck the Leeward Islands on August 27. More than USD$500 million in damage was caused by the storm.
More than 30 people died when the storm passed through the Caribbean.
Resulting from Erika's impact over the northeast Caribbean, the name "Erika" was retired in April 2016. The name was replaced with "Elsa" for 2021. Erika became the second storm name that was retired. Allison was the first one.

</doc>
<doc id="540003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540003" title="Virisila Buadromo">
Virisila Buadromo

Virisila Buadromo is a human rights activist from Fiji. In 2008 she received the International Women of Courage Award. 
In 2001 she became the Executive Director of the Fiji Women’s Rights Movement. This organization helps women by changing laws and policies. 
After the Fiji government changed in December 2006, Buadromo had difficulty with the new government. Buadromo made the program larger by starting the Emerging Leaders Forum, a program for young women. the Emerging Leaders Forum is a one-year program. It works with Fiji’s family law.
Buadromo is also chairperson of the Fiji NGO Coalition on Human Rights.

</doc>
<doc id="540005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540005" title="Toms (cartoonist)">
Toms (cartoonist)

V. T. Thomas (1929 – April 28, 2016), also known as Toms, was an Indian cartoonist. He was born in from Kuttanad, India. He was as the creator of the cartoon characters "Boban and Molly". He joined "Malayala Manaorama", a popular daily in Kerala, in 1961.
Toms died in Kerala, India on April 28, 2016, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="540010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540010" title="Igor Fesunenko">
Igor Fesunenko

Igor Fesunenko (January 28, 1933 – April 28, 2016) was a Soviet and Russian journalist and writer. He was a professor at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations. He was born in Orenburg.
From 1975 to 1979, he worked in Portugal. He then worked as a political columnist and host of such programs as "Today in the World", "The Camera Looks Into the World", "International Panorama", "Vremya". In the early 1990s, he worked in Italy. He returned to Moscow in the late 1990s. 
Fesunenko died in Moscow, Russia on April 28, 2016, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="540012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540012" title="Mustafizur Rahman">
Mustafizur Rahman

Mustafizur Rahman () is a Bangladeshi international cricketer. He is a Left-arm fast-mediumand a left-handed batsman.He was born in Satkhira, Khulna in Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="540013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540013" title="Jenny Diski">
Jenny Diski

Jenny Diski FRSL (née Simmonds; 8 July 1947 – 28 April 2016) was an English writer. She was known for her works "Nothing Natural" and "Rainforest".
Diski was born in London. She lived with author Doris Lessing for four years after being abused by her parents. Diski studied at University College London. She worked as a teacher during the 1970s and early 1980s. 
Diski was a regular contributor to the "London Review of Books"; the collections "Don't" and "A View from the Bed". She won the 2003 Thomas Cook Travel Book Award for "Stranger on a Train: Daydreaming and Smoking around America With Interruptions".
In June 2014, Diski was told that she had at three years to live. In September 2014, she revealed that she had been diagnosed with lung cancer. She died on 28 April 2016 in London from the disease, aged 68.

</doc>
<doc id="540014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540014" title="Barry Howard">
Barry Howard

Barry Howard (9 July 1937 – 28 April 2016) was an English actor. He was best known for his role as Barry Stuart-Hargreaves in the first seven series of the long-running BBC sitcom "Hi-de-Hi!". He left the show and was replaced by Julian Dalrymple-Sykes, played by Ben Aris. He was born in Nottingham. He was also known for his roles in "Terry and June", "You Rang, M'Lord?", "The House of Windsor" and "Dad".
Howard died in Poole, Dorset from blood cancer on 28 April 2016, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="540015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540015" title="Gordon Peters">
Gordon Peters

Gordon Peter Wilkinson, known professionally as Gordon Peters (born 29 November 1926 in Durham) is a British television actor. 
He starred in a BBC TV comedy series in 1973 called "The Gordon Peters Show". He is known for his roles in "Hi-de-Hi!", "Dad's Army", "Are You Being Served?", "Grace & Favour", "One Foot in the Grave", "Never the Twain", "Little Britain", "Keeping Up Appearances" and "HBO's Tales from the Crypt".

</doc>
<doc id="540016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540016" title="Ernst Stavro Blofeld">
Ernst Stavro Blofeld

Ernst Stavro Blofeld is a fictional character and a supervillain from the James Bond series. He was created by Ian Fleming. His mission is world domination. He was born in Poland. He is known for having a scar on his eye, for wearing his grey suit and for having a pet cat. Blofeld is head of the global criminal organization SPECTRE and is commonly referred to as Number 1. 
Blofeld appears or is heard in three novels: "Thunderball"; "On Her Majesty's Secret Service"; and "You Only Live Twice". He was famously played by Donald Pleasence in "You Only Live Twice" (1967) and by Christoph Waltz in "Spectre" (2015).
Some of Blofeld's characteristics have become popular as a supervillain in fiction and media. It includes the parodies Dr. Claw (and his pet, M.A.D. Cat) from the "Inspector Gadget" animated series (1983–86), and Dr. Evil (and his cat Mr. Bigglesworth) from the "Austin Powers" movie series (1997–2002).

</doc>
<doc id="540024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540024" title="René Hausman">
René Hausman

René Hausman (21 February 1936 – 28 April 2016) was a Belgian comic book writer and artist. He was best known for his dark fairy-tales and drawings. He was born in Verviers, Belgium. His best known work is "Laïyna". In 1995, he was made an honorary citizen of the city of Durbuy. He created more than 500 drawings for the magazine. His drawings are about animals and local folklore. It earned him the nickname "Bard of the Ardennes".
Hausman died on 28 April 2016 in Antwerp, Belgium from heart failure, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="540025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540025" title="Chen Zhongshi">
Chen Zhongshi

Chen Zhongshi (; August 1942 – 29 April 2016) was a Chinese author. He started writing in 1965. His best known work is "White Deer Plain" which was published in 1993. He won the Mao Dun Literature Prize in 1997. 
In 1966, Chen joined the Chinese Communist Party. He was interested in writing and soon began to work on a writing career. In 1979, he became a member of the Chinese Writers Association.
Chen died in Xi'an, Shaanxi from oral cancer on 29 April 2016, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="540026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540026" title="Renato Corona">
Renato Corona

Renato Tirso Antonio Coronado Corona (October 15, 1948 – April 29, 2016) was a Filipino jurist. He was the 23rd Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines. He served as chief fro 2010 until his resignation in 2012.
Corona was born on October 15, 1948 in the Santa Ana area of Manila. He studied at Ateneo de Manila University, at Harvard University and at the University of Santo Tomas.
He served as an Associate Justice after being appointed by President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo on April 9, 2002. He was appointed as Chief Justice on May 12, 2010 after the retirement of Chief Justice Reynato Puno.
Corona was a law professor and member of the Cabinet under two Presidents, Fidel V. Ramos and Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, before being appointed to the court.
On December 12, 2011, he was impeached by the House of Representatives. On May 29, 2012, he was found guilty by the Senate of violating some laws of the Constitution of the Philippines. He resigned as a result.
Corona died on April 29, 2016 at The Medical City in Pasig due to complications of a heart attack, aged 67. He suffered from kidney disease.

</doc>
<doc id="540028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540028" title="Punggol LRT Line">
Punggol LRT Line

The Punggol LRT Line is the third line of the LRT system in Singapore. Its first phase comprises a 10.3 km line with 15 stations.
The Punggol LRT Line serves the residents in the town and urban planning area of Punggol.
Punggol LRT station, the centerpiece of the line, is located directly above the Punggol MRT station, thus linking up the Punggol LRT Line to the MRT (Mass Rapid Transit) system that spans the entire island of Singapore.
Plans for the Punggol LRT Line were drawn up and announced in January 1999 with the development of Punggol New Town.
Construction began in June 2000 by a consortium comprising SembCorp Industries, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Mitsubishi Corporation, at a cost of S$354 million. Construction of the first phase was completed in June 2004, and underwent testing by the Land Transport Authority. The system was handed over to SBS Transit on 1 December 2004, who conducted more trial runs and staff training before the opening of the East Loop on 29 January 2005. The West Loop opened on 29 June 2014.
There are 15 Stations on this line, in the future we will have North Loop (PN) in the future. The 'PE' means Punggol LRT East Loop, not Physical Education.
Punggol (PTC/NE17), Interchange with North East Line
Cove (PE1)
Meridian (PE2)
Coral Edge (PE3)
Riviera (PE4)
Kadaloor (PE5)
Oasis (PE6)
Damai (PE7)
Sam Kee (PW1)
Teck Lee (PW2), Station Closed
Punggol Point (PW3), Station Closed
Samudera (PW4), Station Closed
Nibong (PW5)
Sumang (PW6)
Soo Teck (PW7)
On 31 October 2012, LTA announced that by 2016, Sengkang and Punggol LRT systems will be upgraded to a two-car system for the 41 existing train cars, allowing double the number of passengers to board at any one time. Each train car can take up to 105 passengers. 16 more train-cars will also be procured. This will bring the total fleet size to 57 train-cars. Hence, there is also the need to modify the signalling and communication system.
Trains operating on the line are Mitsubishi Crystal Movers (C810) manufactured by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. These trains operate from the Sengkang Depot which serves maintenance and train overhaul facilities for trains along the Sengkang and Punggol LRT lines.

</doc>
<doc id="540030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540030" title="Doomsday (comics)">
Doomsday (comics)

Doomsday is a fictional super villain appearing in comics by DC Comics. He is a Superman villain. Doomsday was first shown in 1992. He made his first full appearance in "" that same year. 
The character was created by writer-artist Dan Jurgens, who wanted to create a villain who could be a physical challenge for Superman. IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time ranked Doomsday as #46. He is best known as the character who "killed" Superman. 
The character appears in the 2016 movie "", voiced and performed by Robin Atkin Downes through motion-capture.

</doc>
<doc id="540034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540034" title="Category:Light Rail Transit (Singapore) stations">
Category:Light Rail Transit (Singapore) stations


</doc>
<doc id="540038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540038" title="Bras Basah MRT Station">
Bras Basah MRT Station

Bras Basah MRT Station (CC2) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the Circle MRT Line. 
The station is located near Singapore Art Museum and a few minutes walk to Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts.
Previous: Dhoby Ghaut (CC1/NS24/NE6)<br>Next: Esplanade (CC3)

</doc>
<doc id="540040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540040" title="Pasir Ris MRT Station">
Pasir Ris MRT Station

Pasir Ris MRT Station (EW1) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is part of the East West MRT Line. The station serves as a terminus for the East West MRT Line. It was the first station to be fitted with platform screen doors.
Previous: N/A<br>Next: Tampines (EW2/DT32)
Formerly the code was: E12 (1989 - 2001)

</doc>
<doc id="540048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540048" title="Punggol MRT/LRT Station">
Punggol MRT/LRT Station

Punggol MRT/LRT Station (NE17/PTC) is an MRT and LRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station between North East MRT Line and Punggol LRT Line. These are connected with MRT/LRT stations around the Punggol area. 
The station opened on 20 June 2003. It is the terminus station along the North East MRT Line. Waterway Point is located nearby.

</doc>
<doc id="540057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540057" title="Thymus (disambiguation)">
Thymus (disambiguation)

The term thymus has two common meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="540070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540070" title="Sengkang MRT/LRT Station">
Sengkang MRT/LRT Station

Sengkang MRT/LRT Station (NE16/STC) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station part of North East MRT Line and Bukit Panjang LRT Line. The station is located at Sengkang area. The station is integrated with Compass One.

</doc>
<doc id="540071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540071" title="Summer school">
Summer school

Summer school (or summer university) is a school or a program usually sponsored by a school or a school district. It provides lessons and activities during the summer vacation.
In the United States, high school, college or university students can enroll in summer school for credit. Generally, this credit is in one of two categories: remediation or advancement. For remediation, the summer school is used to make up credits lost through absence or failure. For advancement, the summer school is used to obtain credit for classes to accelerate progress toward a degree or to lessen the load of courses during the regular school year. Many universities offer short-term summer courses to attract both local and international students, and these programs are often surrounded by social activities.
In the United Kingdom, Lite Regal summer school which is based in Cambridge provides teaching for 13 to 18 year olds for courses on medical preparation, law preparation etc. Currently last summer and this summer they have students from 50 + nationalities staying and learning courses in Cambridge University.

</doc>
<doc id="540072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540072" title="Category:States and territories disestablished in the 20th century">
Category:States and territories disestablished in the 20th century


</doc>
<doc id="540075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540075" title="Category:Fictional European people">
Category:Fictional European people


</doc>
<doc id="540077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540077" title="Category:James Bond characters">
Category:James Bond characters


</doc>
<doc id="540079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540079" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Atlantic Coast Brands">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Atlantic Coast Brands


</doc>
<doc id="540082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540082" title="Superb fairy-wren">
Superb fairy-wren

The superb fairy-wren ("Malurus cyaneus"), also known as the blue wren, is a passerine bird of the family Maluridae. It is common and familiar across southeastern Australia. 
Each pair has a territory, also shows obvious sexual dimorphism. The male in breeding plumage has a striking bright blue forehead, ear coverts, mantle, and tail, with a black mask and black or dark blue throat. However, non-breeding males, females and juveniles are mostly grey-brown in colour. 
Like other fairy-wrens, it has several peculiar behavioural characteristics. The birds are socially monogamous but sexually promiscuous. They form pairs between one male and one female, but each partner will mate with other individuals and even assist in raising the young from such pairings. Male wrens pluck yellow petals and display them to females as part of a courtship display.
The superb fairy-wren can be found in almost any area that has at least a little dense undergrowth for shelter, including grasslands with scattered shrubs, moderately thick forest, woodland, heaths, and domestic gardens. It has adapted well to the urban environment and is common in suburban Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne. The superb fairy-wren eats mostly insects and supplements its diet with seeds.

</doc>
<doc id="540088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540088" title="Fernvale LRT Station">
Fernvale LRT Station

Fernvale LRT Station (SW5) is an LRT station Singapore. It is a station along Sengkang LRT Line. It is on the West Loop. Fernvale is the only station along the Sengkang LRT Line which uses Side platforms. 
Previous: Thanggam (SW4)<br>Next: Layar (SW6)

</doc>
<doc id="540089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540089" title="Damai LRT Station">
Damai LRT Station

Damai LRT Station is an LRT station Singapore. It is along the Punggol LRT Line East Loop.
Previous: Oasis (PE6)<br>Next: Punggol (PTC/NE17)

</doc>
<doc id="540090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540090" title="Merve Kavakçı">
Merve Kavakçı

Merve Safa Kavakçı (born 19 August 1968, Ankara) is Turkish politician, who was elected as a Virtue Party deputy for Istanbul on April 18, 1999.
Kavakci is the Director of Postcolonial Studies Research Center (PAMER) at Uskudar University. She is also an Associate Professor of Political Science and International Relations. Kavakçı is a Hafiz-al Qur'an. She received her master's degree from Harvard University and her PhD from Howard University. Kavakçı is currently a professor at George Washington University and Howard University in Washington D.C. She is the mother of two, Fatima Abushanab, 21 and Mariam Kavakci, 20.
Kavakçı is a consultant for U.S. Congress on the Muslim world and a columnist for Turkish conservative daily "Yeni Akit" newspaper.
She is the author of Headscarf Politics in Turkey: A Postcolonial Reading, and five other books some of which are translated to Arabic and Persian. She is the editor author of International Relations in the Global Village: Changing Interdependencies.
Her most recent book is The Unnamed Coup at Scarfless Democarcy (Basortusuz Demokrasi’de Adi Konmamis Darbe). A book on her political life The Day Turkey Stood Still: Merve Kavakci's Walk in to the Turkish Parliament authored by American author Richard Peres was recently released. 
Kavakçı is recognized among the World's Most Influential 500 Muslims. She was recognized among "Women of Excellence" by NAACP and GWU in 2004. She was awarded the Public Service Award in Tribute and in Recognition of efforts for the advancement of human rights and Muslim Women's empowerment by International Association for Women and Children in 2000. She was awarded Service to Humanity Award by Haus Der Kulturellen Aktivität und Toleranz in Vienna, Austria in 1999. She was granted Mother of the Year Award by Capital Platform of Ankara and National Youth Organization in 1999.
She is married and has two children.

</doc>
<doc id="540091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540091" title="Category:20th century disestablishments in Europe">
Category:20th century disestablishments in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="540093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540093" title="Mediacorp Channel 8">
Mediacorp Channel 8

MediaCorp Channel 8 is a television channel in Singapore. It is owned by MediaCorp. 
The Chinese language channel was launched in 1963. It broadcasts news, dramas and variety shows. It operates 24 hours a day, every day. It used to be SBC 8. The channel shows programs from Singapore, Taiwan and some other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="540094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540094" title="Promiscuity">
Promiscuity

Promiscuity is the practice of having casual sex frequently with different partners. In cultures where sexual activity happens only in exclusive committed relationships, promiscuity is criticized as a bad activity. A common example of behavior viewed as promiscuous is a one-night stand.
What sexual behavior is considered promiscuous varies between cultures, as does the frequency of promiscuity. A study published in 2005 found that promiscuous men and women are judged equally harshly. A recent poll showed that both genders tend to express strong preference for sexually conservative partners. However, later studies show evidence for a double standard.
Promiscuity is common in many animal species. Some species have promiscuous mating systems, ranging from polyandry and polygyny to mating systems with no stable relationships. Many species form stable pair bonds, but still mate with other individuals outside the pair. 

</doc>
<doc id="540098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540098" title="Category:States and territories established in the 1940s">
Category:States and territories established in the 1940s


</doc>
<doc id="540099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540099" title="Category:20th century establishments in Asia">
Category:20th century establishments in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="540100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540100" title="Category:20th century disestablishments in Asia">
Category:20th century disestablishments in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="540101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540101" title="Category:20th century establishments in Africa">
Category:20th century establishments in Africa


</doc>
<doc id="540102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540102" title="Category:20th century establishments by continent">
Category:20th century establishments by continent


</doc>
<doc id="540103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540103" title="Category:20th century disestablishments in Africa">
Category:20th century disestablishments in Africa


</doc>
<doc id="540104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540104" title="Category:20th century disestablishments by continent">
Category:20th century disestablishments by continent


</doc>
<doc id="540112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540112" title="Category:States and territories established in the 19th century">
Category:States and territories established in the 19th century


</doc>
<doc id="540115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540115" title="Category:States and territories disestablished in the 19th century">
Category:States and territories disestablished in the 19th century


</doc>
<doc id="540117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540117" title="Category:19th century establishments in Asia">
Category:19th century establishments in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="540120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540120" title="Category:19th century establishments by continent">
Category:19th century establishments by continent


</doc>
<doc id="540123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540123" title="Category:19th century disestablishments in Asia">
Category:19th century disestablishments in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="540127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540127" title="List of Singapore LRT stations">
List of Singapore LRT stations

Below is a list of all Light Rail Transit (LRT) systems in Singapore. 
The LRT systems are intra-town loops, shuttle services, or both. The routes may not run in sequence of the stations' alpha-numeric codes.

</doc>
<doc id="540133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540133" title="Category:Entertainers from Nottingham">
Category:Entertainers from Nottingham


</doc>
<doc id="540134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540134" title="Category:Entertainers from Nottinghamshire">
Category:Entertainers from Nottinghamshire


</doc>
<doc id="540146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540146" title="Irena Sendler">
Irena Sendler

Irena Sendler (15 February 1910 – 12 May 2008) was a nurse and social worker in Warsaw, Poland. During World War II, when Poland was occupied by Nazis, she took about 2,500 Jewish children out of Poland with help from other members of the Żegota (The Polish Council to Aid Jews). She was caught, and the Nazis tortured her. The Nazis were planning on killing her, but she avoided death. 

</doc>
<doc id="540154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540154" title="Carles Puigdemont">
Carles Puigdemont

Carles Puigdemont i Casamajó (born 29 December 1962) is the President of Catalonia. His party, Democratic Convergence of Catalonia ("Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya", CDC) won the elections in 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="540161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540161" title="Hurricane Odile">
Hurricane Odile

Hurricane Odile was a hurricane (tropical cyclone) that happened in mid-September 2014. It made landfall in the Mexican state of Baja California Sur. On September 15, 2014, Odile damaged several luxury resorts in Cabo San Lucas. Parts of several hotels collapsed and about 135 people were injured. Fifteen people were killed in the storm. At the time of the damage it had wind speeds of 140 miles per hour. Damage from Odile was 16.6 billion Mexican pesos ($1.22 billion in 2014 US dollars).
The name "Odile" was later retired. It was replaced with "Odalys" for the 2020 Pacific hurricane season.

</doc>
<doc id="540169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540169" title="House of Fortune">
House of Fortune

House of Fortune () is a Singaporean drama television series. It is produced and shown on Mediacorp Channel 8. It began its run from 19 January 2016. There are 20 episodes. It stars Zhu Houren, Thomas Ong, Kym Ng, Tong Bing Yu, Yao Wenlong, Xiang Yun, Shane Pow, Ya Hui, Bonnie Loo and Sora Ma as the main characters. The series revolves around a creative director and his wife, who are beset by financial trouble and move in with an elderly relative, with their eye on his bungalow. With the same goal in mind, his sister and her failed songwriter husband move in too and vie for control of the house.

</doc>
<doc id="540170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540170" title="Peace &amp; Prosperity">
Peace &amp; Prosperity

Peace & Prosperity (Chinese: 富贵平安) is a Singaporean drama television series. It is produced and shown on Mediacorp Channel 8. It began its run from 4 April 2016. There are 170 episodes. It stars Xiang Yun, Desmond Tan, Julie Tan, Zhang Wei, Belinda Lee, Tong Bing Yu, Dawn Yeoh, Tracy Lee, Michelle Wong, Terence Cao, Ben Yeo, Jeffrey Xu, Romeo Tan, Shane Pow, Marcus Chin, Lin Meijiao, Yao Wenlong, Ling Xiao, Jayley Woo, Zhu Houren, Priscelia Chan and Seraph Sun as the main characters. The story revolves around the lives of the Huang family who have been running a TCM (traditional Chinese medicine) clinic for three generations. The family-run business is searching for its next successor, as the young generation of Huangs are not interested in TCM and have yet to prove themselves capable of running the business.

</doc>
<doc id="540185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540185" title="Katur Dynasty">
Katur Dynasty

The Katur dynasty ruled the ancient kingdom of Chitral and parts of the Hindukush region Afghanistan. The name mehtar or mitar is used for the ruler in ancient Erina language.

</doc>
<doc id="540193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540193" title="Golden Temple">
Golden Temple

The Golden temple is the holiest shrines of Sikhs. Its dome was decorated with gold on its surface. Building was started in the reign of Mughal emperor Akbar. He gave the land to the fifth sikh guru Arjun. More than 500,000 people visit it each year.
Sri Harmandir Sahib is the official name of the Golden Temple. It is the holiest Gurdwara of Sikhism. It is in the city of Amritsar, Punjab, India. 
The fifth Sikh Guru, Guru Arjan, designed the Harmandir Sahib to be built, and put the Adi Granth, the holy scripture of Sikhism, inside the Harmandir Sahib. The Harmandir Sahib is regarded as the abode of God's spiritual attribute, but the Akal Takht is the seat of God's temporal authority.
The construction of Harmandir Sahib was intended to build a place of worship for men and women from all walks of life and all religions to come and worship God equally. The four entrances (representing the four directions) to get into the Harmandir Sahib also symbolise the openness of the Sikhs towards all people and religions. Over 100,000 people visit the holy shrine daily for worship, and also partake jointly in the free community kitchen and meal ("Langar") regardless of any distinctions, a tradition that is a hallmark of all Sikh Gurudwaras.
The present-day gurdwara was rebuilt in 1764 by Jassa Singh Ahluwalia with the help of other Sikh Misls. In the early nineteenth century, Maharaja Ranjit Singh secured the Punjab region from outside attack and covered the upper floors of the gurdwara with gold, which gives it its distinctive appearance and its English name.

</doc>
<doc id="540201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540201" title="Dover MRT Station">
Dover MRT Station

Dover MRT Station (EW22) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is part of the East West MRT Line. The station was opened on 18 October 2001. It is the first MRT station to be built over an existing MRT line.
The station is near Singapore Polytechnic.
The station code was W7A. In July 2001 it was changed to EW22. 

</doc>
<doc id="540202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540202" title="Joo Koon MRT Station">
Joo Koon MRT Station

Joo Koon MRT Station (EW29) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. It is the terminus station until Gul Circle is completed.
Previous: Pioneer (EW28)<br>Next: "Gul Circle (EW30) (Under Construction)"

</doc>
<doc id="540204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540204" title="Super Elastic Bubble Plastic">
Super Elastic Bubble Plastic

Super Elastic Bubble Plastic was the brand name for a children's toy. It was made from the 1970s through the 80s by Wham-O. The bubbles contained polyvinyl acetate dissolved in acetone. They also had ethyl acetate added. The acetone evaporated when the bubbles were inflated through a drinking straw. This left behind a solid plastic film. They were also highly flammable. The product was dangerous to children if spilled. It also gave off noxious fumes. The fumes could become concentrated inside the straw, making it dangerous to inhale through the straw while inflating a bubble. The toy was not recommended for children under 5. Because of these problems, Super Elastic Bubble Plastic was eventually discontinued.

</doc>
<doc id="540206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540206" title="Expo MRT Station">
Expo MRT Station

Expo MRT Station (CG1/DT35) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station along the East West MRT Line and Downtown MRT Line. It is located near Singapore Expo.
The station was opened 10 January 2001 for the East West MRT Line. In 2017 the Downtown MRT Line will be added.

</doc>
<doc id="540216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540216" title="Papanasam, Tirunelveli">
Papanasam, Tirunelveli

Papanasam is a town in Tirunelveli district. This town is where the Thamirabarani River rises. In one of Papanasam's temples, a ritual is held to wash away sins. People throw the clothes they wear into the Thamirabarani River. The movie acted by Kamalahaasan was shot in and named Papanasam.

</doc>
<doc id="540219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540219" title="Chandragupta Maurya">
Chandragupta Maurya

Chandragupta Maurya was the first emperor of the Maurya Empire. He defeated the Nandas and founded this empire in 324 BC.
Chandragupta Maurya also defeated Seleucus I Nicator, one of the successful satrapies of Alexander the Great. He was the ruler until 297 BC. He became a Jain monk and died at Shravanabelagola of Karnataka in the same year.

</doc>
<doc id="540220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540220" title="Ramanathapuram district">
Ramanathapuram district

Ramanathapuram district is one of the 32 districts in Tamil Nadu. Indian President A. P. J. Abdul Kalam was born there.

</doc>
<doc id="540227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540227" title="Category:Politicians from Catalonia">
Category:Politicians from Catalonia


</doc>
<doc id="540228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540228" title="Teesta River">
Teesta River

The Teesta River (or Tista) is a river in the Indian state of Sikkim. It is long.
The Teesta river starts at Pahunri glacier, and flows south through rapids in the Sikkim Himalaya. The river goes by the town of Rangpo. It changes course southwards flowing into West Bengal, before joining the Brahmaputra River.

</doc>
<doc id="540230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540230" title="LACSA">
LACSA

LACSA was/is the flag carrier of Costa Rica. Pan Am founded the airline on October 17, 1945. The first flight was on June 1, 1946. In 1992, TACA Airlines bought 86% of LACSA. Most of LACSA's planes were repainted in the "TACA Airlines" paint-job. The "original LACSA" stopped flying in 2014. However, the "new LACSA" is now a subsidiary of Avianca.

</doc>
<doc id="540231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540231" title="Rangpo">
Rangpo

Rangpo is a town in East Sikkim in the Indian state of Sikkim. The town borders West Bengal. It is on the Teesta river. All vehicles entering Sikkim have to stop here.
Rangpo is now the center for almost all the pharmaceutical companies. The town is one of the fastest growing towns in the state.

</doc>
<doc id="540237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540237" title="Category:Sportspeople from Nottingham">
Category:Sportspeople from Nottingham


</doc>
<doc id="540259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540259" title="Tampines MRT Station">
Tampines MRT Station

Tampines MRT Station (EW2/DT32) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station along East West MRT Line. As of 2017, it is planned to also be an interchange for the Downtown MRT Line.
Previous: Pasir Ris (EW1)<br>Next: Simei (EW3)
Previous: Tampines West (DT31)<br>Next: Tampines East (DT33)

</doc>
<doc id="540264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540264" title="Karaikal district">
Karaikal district

Karaikal district is one of the 4 districts of Puducherry union territory. It is the 2nd biggest district of the union territory after the Puducherry district. It has the population of more than 2lakhs. The capital is Karaikal port city. The district is made of communes Kottucherry, Nedungadu, Thirunallar, Neravy and Thirumalairajanpattinam.
The Karaikal district formed an integral part of the Pallava kingdom in eighth century. Poet Sekkizhar describes the town as " vanga malik kadar karaikal".The famous Thirunallar Saniswaran Temple, Karaikal Ammaiyar Temple are in this district.
The rivers Arasalar, Veerasolan River, Kodamurutti River, Kaveri River's other tributaries reach the sea here. The Karaikal Port is one of the biggest in South India. The Karaikal Airport is being constructed. It will be the first airport builted entirely with private capital.

</doc>
<doc id="540265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540265" title="Palm-leaf manuscript">
Palm-leaf manuscript

In Southeast Asia, Palm leaves were used as a material to write on. Their use is known in the 5th century BC, but may have started earlier. To prepare them for writing, palm leaves are cooked, dried, and polished. Due to the nature of palm leaves, the manuscripts use "landscape format". These leaves are between and wide, but only to high. 
Old manuscripts are prone to putrefaction, and they are commonly consumed by silverfish.

</doc>
<doc id="540266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540266" title="Putrefaction">
Putrefaction

Putrefaction is a natural process of decay. Microorganisms break down organic materials. Usually it occurs after the death of a plant or an animal. The process consists of many steps. The total time it takes is dependent on various factors, such as the availability of oxygen.
Putrefaction involves fermentation. Putrefaction is important, because elements such as nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur which are bound in the dead matter are converted into a form that is usable by plants.

</doc>
<doc id="540274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540274" title="Teck Whye LRT Station">
Teck Whye LRT Station

Teck Whye LRT Station (BP4) is an LRT station Singapore. It is along the Bukit Panjang LRT Line. It was opened on 6 November 1999. The station is near ITE College West.
Formerly the code was: A4 (1999 - 2001)
Previous: Keat Hong (BP3)<br>Next: Phoenix (BP5)

</doc>
<doc id="540275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540275" title="Oasis LRT Station">
Oasis LRT Station

Oasis LRT Station (PE6) is an LRT station Singapore. It is along the Punggol LRT Line. 
Previous: Kadaloor (PE5)<br>Next: Damai (PE7)

</doc>
<doc id="540287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540287" title="EDHEC Business School">
EDHEC Business School

EDHEC Business School is a European higher studies establishment. The school is in 5 places, in Paris, Lille and Nice, France, in the United Kingdom (London) and in Singapore. It was created in 1906.
EDHEC specializes in the fields of economics, finance and management.

</doc>
<doc id="540326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540326" title="Johann Ambrosius Bach">
Johann Ambrosius Bach

Johann Ambrosius Bach (22 February 1645 – ) was a German musician and the father of Johann Sebastian Bach.
Ambrosius was born in Erfurt, Germany. His father, Christoph Bach (1613–1661) was also a musician, as was his twin brother Johann Christoph Bach (1645–1693). Ambrosius was employed as a violinist in Erfurt.
In 1671, Ambrosius moved his family to Eisenach, where he was employed as a court trumpeter and director of the town musicians. He married his first wife Maria Elisabeth Lämmerhirt on 1 April 1668, and they had eight children. Four of these children became musicians, including Johann Sebastian. Marie died and was buried on 3 May 1694. On 27 November 1694 Ambrosius married Barbara Margaretha. This was her third marriage; both her former husbands, including Johann Günther Bach, had died. She had two young daughters. Ambrosius became very sick, and died in Eisenach less than three months later. Barbara was unable to look after all the children, so Johann Jacob Bach and Johann Sebastian Bach, moved in with the eldest son, Johann Christoph Bach.

</doc>
<doc id="540337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540337" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/User:AdrianHernandez1/Draft:Top Model Latina (season 1)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/User:AdrianHernandez1/Draft:Top Model Latina (season 1)


</doc>
<doc id="540346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540346" title="Category:Light Rail Transit (Singapore)">
Category:Light Rail Transit (Singapore)


</doc>
<doc id="540352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540352" title="Chinatown MRT Station">
Chinatown MRT Station

Chinatown MRT Station (NE4/DT19) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station along the North East MRT Line and Downtown MRT Line. It became the first MRT station with both lines operated by SBS Transit. 
It is currently the terminus on the Downtown MRT Line. After construction is complete, Fort Canning MRT Station will be the terminus.
Previous: Outram Park (NE3/EW16/TE17)<br>Next: Clarke Quay (NE5)
Previous: Telok Ayer (DT18)<br>Next: terminus

</doc>
<doc id="540353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540353" title="Woodleigh MRT Station">
Woodleigh MRT Station

Woodleigh MRT Station (NE11) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the North East MRT Line. The station is built on part of the former Bidadari Cemetery.
The station was built in 2003. It remained closed for 8 years, with the train passing through.
Formerly the code was: P5 (before opening)

</doc>
<doc id="540358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540358" title="Clarke Quay MRT Station">
Clarke Quay MRT Station

Clarke Quay MRT Station (NE5) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the North East MRT Line. 
Previous: Chinatown (NE4/DT19)<br>Next: Dhoby Ghaut (NE6/NS24/CC1)
Formerly the code was: H4 (before opening)

</doc>
<doc id="540380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540380" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Cellie">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Cellie


</doc>
<doc id="540386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540386" title="Category:Best Actor Academy Award winners">
Category:Best Actor Academy Award winners


</doc>
<doc id="540389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540389" title="Peter Thomas">
Peter Thomas

Peter Thomas (June 28, 1924 – April 30, 2016) was an American announcer and narrator of television programs, including "Nova", "Forensic Files" and "Medical Detectives".
Thomas was born in Pensacola, Florida, to Dr. John D. Thomas and Sibyl Addenbrooke. He had two younger brothers, John and David.
Thomas began his career at fourteen as an announcer on a local radio show. The station could not pay him due to his age, so they arranged for the sponsor, Piper Aircraft, to give him flying lessons in a Piper Cub.
After World War II started, Thomas left The Stony Brook School and volunteered for the United States Army in 1943. He served with the First Infantry Division in five major campaigns. This included the Battle of Normandy and the Battle of the Bulge. He was issued a Battle star for each of the five campaigns. He was also awarded the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart and the French Croix de guerre.
Thomas received many awards for his work. He said that one of his best was the Oscar won by a documentary he narrated, "One Survivor Remembers". That documentary, produced by HBO, talks about the personal experience of Gerda Weissman Klein, who was imprisoned at the Nordhausen Concentration Camp when she was a teenager. Thomas' unit helped free the prisoners at Nordhausen. Klein and Thomas met during the making of the documentary, and again at its premiere. Thomas also participated in an HBO movie on the Battle of Hürtgen Forest, in which he fought with the 1st Infantry Division (United States). Thomas was also the narrator for a show that ran on The Discovery Channel in 1993 that was called "How the West was Lost". Thomas was the narrator for the two-hour "Nova" episode entitled "D-Day's Sunken Secrets", broadcast May 28, 2014, just before the 70th anniversary of the D-Day landings; he participated in the original D-Day landing on Omaha Beach.
Thomas was married to Stella (Barrineau) Thomas until her 2014 death, and lived in Naples, Florida. He was involved in work with veterans, having served on the board of the National D-Day Memorial Foundation and in other similar roles.
He worked out of his home for recording studios all across the country. Also he continued narrating at recording studios in New York City, where he worked for most of his career. Prior to pursuing narration full time, he was a New York anchor for CBS News.
Thomas died on April 30, 2016 of natural causes at the age of 91.

</doc>
<doc id="540392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540392" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Ajitabh Bose">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Ajitabh Bose


</doc>
<doc id="540394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540394" title="Simei MRT Station">
Simei MRT Station

Simei MRT Station (EW3) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. The station is located in Tampines. 
Previous: Tampines (EW2/DT32)<br>Next: Tanah Merah (EW4)
Formerly the Code was: E10 (1989 - 2001)

</doc>
<doc id="540395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540395" title="Category:Best Actress Academy Award winners">
Category:Best Actress Academy Award winners


</doc>
<doc id="540401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540401" title="Category:Best Supporting Actor Academy Award winners">
Category:Best Supporting Actor Academy Award winners


</doc>
<doc id="540404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540404" title="Sean Burke">
Sean Burke

Sean Burke is a Canadian retired NHL goalie. He played 18 seasons in the NHL. He was born in Windsor, Ontario and grew up in Toronto, Ontario. He is a 3 time All-Star in the NHL. He announced his retirement on September 18, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="540405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540405" title="Gerard Gallant">
Gerard Gallant

Gerard Gallant is a NHL coach for the Florida Panthers. He is a former NHL player. He was born in Prince Edward Island. He received the NHL All Star Game Coach: 2015-16 (Florida Panthers - Atlantic Division). He has two children.

</doc>
<doc id="540414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540414" title="Basseri">
Basseri

The Basseri are a Persian nomadic and pastoral tribe of the Fars Province in Iran.Their migratory area is around Shiraz.The Basseri are a tribe of Khamseh confederation.
Basseries are Persian.They are the survivors of Pasargadean tribe, the biggest tribe of Persia in Achaemenid Empire period.They speak Persian with a different accent.They are Shia Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="540423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540423" title="Tanganyika laughter epidemic">
Tanganyika laughter epidemic

The Tanganyika laughter epidemic is when an outbreak of laughter occurred in Tanganyika (which is modern day Tanzania), in 1962. It spread throughout nearby villages, infecting mostly young girls.

</doc>
<doc id="540427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540427" title="Shiraz (grape)">
Shiraz (grape)

"Shiraz or Syrah"' is a grape that is used to produce red wine. Originally, these grapes grew in the Rhone valley, but they are now cultivated all over the world to produce red wine.

</doc>
<doc id="540432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540432" title="Deaths in May 2016">
Deaths in May 2016

The following is a list of notable deaths in May 2016. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Months". Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

</doc>
<doc id="540433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540433" title="Harry Kroto">
Harry Kroto

Sir Harold Walter Kroto, FRS (born Harold Walter Krotoschiner, 7 October 1939 – 30 April 2016), known as Harry Kroto, was an English chemist.
Kroto shared the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Robert Curl and Richard Smalley for their discovery of fullerenes. He spent a large part of his career at the University of Sussex, where he was an emeritus professor. Kroto was an early supporter of Asteroid Day.
Kroto died on 30 April 2016 in Lewes, East Sussex from complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis at the age of 76.

</doc>
<doc id="540443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540443" title="Outram Park MRT Station">
Outram Park MRT Station

Outram Park MRT Station (EW16/NE3/TE17) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is an interchange station on the East West MRT Line and North East MRT Line. In 2021 it will also be an interchange for the [Thomson-East Coast MRT Line]]. 
Previous: Tanjong Pagar (EW15)<br>Next: Tiong Bahru (EW17)
Previous: HarbourFront (NE1/CC29)<br>Next: Chinatown (NE4/DT19)
Previous: Havelock (TE16)<br>Next: Maxwell (TE18)

</doc>
<doc id="540451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540451" title="Alfa Romeo GTV (1995)">
Alfa Romeo GTV (1995)

Alfa Romeo GTV (1995–2006) was a 2-door sportscar made in Italy by Alfa Romeo.
It was designed by Enrico Fumia (born 1948) of the Pininfarina design company.
GTV was a coupe with tiny rear seats. "GTV" means "Gran Turismo Veloce" (in Italian) and had a little space for luggage for longer trips. The cabriolet Spider had no back seat and almost no space for luggage. The engines were 1.8, 2, 3 and 3.2-liter. In 2003 the front looks were changed.
GTV was replaced in 2004 and 2005 by the Alfa Romeo GT and the Alfa Romeo Brera, and in 2006 the Brera "Spider".

</doc>
<doc id="540453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540453" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:Pp-sock">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Template:Pp-sock


</doc>
<doc id="540460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540460" title="Splendid astrapia">
Splendid astrapia

The splendid astrapia ("Astrapia splendidissima") is a bird-of-paradise about 39 cm long. The male is black with an iridescent yellow-green mantle (cloak). It has a blue-green throat, dark green below. The tail feathers are short, broad and white with black tips. The female has a brown plumage and dark head.
Little is known about this bird. It lives in the mountain forests of the west central highlands of New Guinea. Its diet is fruit, insects, lizards and frogs.

</doc>
<doc id="540471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540471" title="Kawasaki Heavy Industries &amp; Nippon Sharyo C751B">
Kawasaki Heavy Industries &amp; Nippon Sharyo C751B

Kawasaki Heavy Industries & Nippon Sharyo C751B is the third generation rolling stock used on the Singapore MRT system. The trains operate on the East West Line and North South Line.
The trains began operation on 28 January 2000. They were built by Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Nippon Sharyo. 21 six-carriage trains were built in Japan. 

</doc>
<doc id="540475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540475" title="Bedok MRT Station">
Bedok MRT Station

Bedok MRT Station (EW5) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. 
Underpasses connect the station to both sides of the road. The station also links to Bedok Mall and the Bedok Bus Interchange.
Previous: Tanah Merah (EW4)<br>Next: Kembangan (EW6)
Formerly the code was: E8 (1989 - 2001)

</doc>
<doc id="540480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540480" title="Kembangan MRT Station">
Kembangan MRT Station

Kembangan MRT Station (EW6) is an MRT Station in Singapore. It is along the East West MRT Line. The station is above-ground with platform screen doors.
Previous: Bedok (EW5)<br>Next: Eunos (EW7)
Formerly the Code was: E7 (1989 - 2001)

</doc>
<doc id="540491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540491" title="68th (Durham) Regiment of Foot (Light Infantry)">
68th (Durham) Regiment of Foot (Light Infantry)

The 68th (Durham) Regiment of Foot (Light Infantry) was an infantry regiment in the British Army. It was created in 1758. It turned into the Durham Light Infantry in 1881.
They fought in the Seven Year's war, The Peninsular War, Crimean War, the New Zealand Wars. They served with distinction in the Peninsular Army under Arthur Wellesley. They were also present at the Indian Mutiny.
In August 1756, after they lost Minorca in the Seven Years' War, 15 regiments (including the 23rd Regiment Of Foot) were ordered to form a second battalion. In 1758, the second battalion was separated from the 23rd and named the 68th Regiment Of Foot. It was commanded by Colonel John Lambton (1st Earl of Durham.)
In May 1758, they were stationed at the Isle of Wight, after the British allies, the Prussians, asked them to come. They were to raid small areas of France and to put off privateers. They were also to distract the French Imperial Army from the Prussians who were hard pressed at the time.
The 68th were sent to the French Coast on 7 August in the Bay of Urevillie. The troops left on 16 August. They were sent to Lunaire bay on the 3rd of September. They were defeated by a concentrated French force and were forced to retreat. It is believed the British lost up to 1500 men (killed or captured). Many of the injured died on the journey back to England due to infection on the ships.
When they landed in England, the 68th had to provide 173 men to the 61st Regiment Of Foot. They therefore had very few men left and had to search the countryside for new recruits. In March 1760, the 68th was forced to send 600 men to the West Indies. That left the 68th with only 58 rankers.
Very little happened until July of 1763, when the regiment was shipped to Ireland.
On 2 June 1974, the regiment left Ireland with 250 privates. They and arrived at Antigua on 21 June. Eight years passed until six companies from the 68th were sent to fight rebellious Caribs in St. Vincent.
In March 1773. the regiment went back to Britain. In May 1774, they went to Scotland and Fort George. In December 1775, they returned to Ireland. The regiment spent seven and a half years in Ireland.
In 1779. one of its former officers, James Hackman, was hanged for the murder of Martha Ray.
The 68th left Ireland for Portsmouth in September with 793 men. News of the Peace of Paris caused some in the regiment to rebel.
After guarding prisoners of war, in October the regiment was sent to Jersey and Guernsey. It left and went to Britain in June 1784. It left for Gibraltar in early October 1785.
The 68th's stay in Gibraltar was uneventful. The regiment was sent to the islands of Martinique, Saint Lucia and Grenada, where they fought runaway slaves. They returned to Britain in September.
In late November, the two battalions separately went to the West Indies. They arrived in 1801 between between late January and March, to be put on Martinique, Barbados, The Saints and Dominica. The Treaty of Amiens was signed in 1802. They went back to St Lucia and Martinique to the French. However war broke out again in May 1803. In June, the 68th was sent to retake St. Lucia. In February 1805, having lost 500 dead and 170 injured, the 68th returned to England. The regiment was moved to St. Vincent, and in April to Antigua.
The 68th regiment spent the winter in Ripon. By December 1807, they received recruits and other soldiers that helped to bring the numbers of soldiers to 436. They stayed in Yorkshire. While in Hull, they were told to become a light infantry regiment.
Walcheren was invaded by an army of nearly 40,000 men in 15 brigades. This was an attempt to destroy a French fleet and to turn Napoleon's attention from Austria to them. They landed on 30 July. On 1 August, with the 85th Regiment Of Foot, they pursued their opponents to the walls of Flushing, which fell after the siege on 15 August. The regiment left in December to go to Deal.
In February 1811, while three companies were in civilians houses, some officers and soldiers attacked some townspeople who were insulting them. This resulted in the court-martial, of the officers, and two Lieutenants becoming "prisoners of the civil power". In June 1811, the regiment was sent to Portugal.
The 68th landed in Lisbon on 27 June. By 17 July, it joined the 7th Division. For the rest of the year, the regiment marched around Northern Portugal and Spain. As the march progressed, so did the number of sick men. Up to 25 men died every month throughout 1812. Despite regular reinforcements arriving, the regiment never had more than 300 men fit for active duty. In January 1812, the regiment deployed with the 7th Division as a reserve whilst the army captured Cuidad Ridrigo. On 16 March, it was a reserve for the capture of Badajoz. However they were not needed in either case and didn't get into any combat.
On 2 June, the regiment marched with the 7th Division into Spain. They held a position near Salamanca. The regiment was later reinforced with a company of Brunswick Oels. The regiment was then ordered to defend the village of Moresco. They barricaded all entrances to the village and fought off French attacks until nightfall.
Early on 22 July, the 68th and 2nd Cacadores fought with French Voltiguers. They later held the hill until they were relieved by the 95th Regiment in the afternoon. The 68th marched with the 7th Brigade in the battle. It was a defeat for the French. On 12 August, the 68th and 51st were the first regiments to march into Madrid. On 13 August, the 68th, 51st and Chasseurs Britanniques attacked fortified buildings holding up to 200 French troops who surrendered the next day. In September, Wellington's army besieged Burgos whilst the 68th were at Olmos covering the attackers.
The regiment went into winter quarters at Paços de Baixo and Paços de Cima in December. Due to its weakened state with only 235 men fit for duty and 247 sick, it was briefly threatened with being combined with another weak regiment into a Provisional Battalion. However, by April 1813 it had 429 men fit with only 97 sick.
They began the march into Spain in early May.
Wellington arrived in the area of Vitoria on 20 June. The 7th division, with the 3rd formed the left centre column of the attack the next day. They moved south across the River Zadorra. After advancing east, they came under heavy cannon and musket fire:
They took shelter in a ditch 200 yards from the French guns. While the commander of the Column hesitated, Vandeleur's brigade arrived, they both advanced forward. That night they camped.
In July 1813, the British advanced to Pyrenees. Most of the French army retreated back to France to be organized by Soult. Soult launched 2 assaults on Spain on 25 July. After marching between Pamplona and Mt Achiola the regiment, with the Inglis's brigade, attacked the French on a hill near Urroz. With the help of Chasseurs Britanniques, they pushed the French from the hill. On 2 August, the 7th Division, with the 4th and part of the Light Division, attacked the weak centre of the remains of Soult's Corps. At the end of the month, Soult tried to take back San Sebastian. When they learned of the failure of the main attack, the French retired.
In October, Wellington crossed into France. On 10 November, he attacked the position Soult had been building defences in for 3 months. The 68th and the brigade took a number of forts, at Sare and met some resistance from the French. Col. Inglis wrote 'The 68th made the attack with its usual vivacity...'. As the army went into winter quarters, the regiment had only 197 men.
By the start of the next offensive in February 1814, they had 258 Soldiers.
The 7th Division advanced across the Nive and took positions South of the Adour, to turn Soult's attention from Wellington's main effort to them. On 27 February, the division reached Orthez after crossing the River. They attacked Soult's right, behind the 4th Division. The 68th, 82nd and the Chasseurs Britanniques charged the 4th Division, and forced them out.
On 8 March, the 4th and 7th Divisions went north. They entered Bordeaux on 12 March. They stayed there for the rest of the month near the French troops. Napoleon abdicated on 12 April. The Regiment went back to Ireland arriving on the 26th.
While in Malta, in February 1854, the regiment was sent to war.
On 7 August, the Regiment, with fewer than 900 men, went to Bekios bay on Bosporus. They arrived there on 12 August. They were sent to Varna on 1 September. They were sent near Eupatoria in the Crimea on 14 September. Two companies from the 68th were sent to escort Lord Raglan.
At the Battle of Alma, they were in reserve. They only briefly were under cannon fire. In late September, the regiment was sent to the south of Sevastopol. After that they moved south.
On 25 October, the Russians tried to take the port of Balaclava, used by the allies as the port of supply. They arrived late to the battle. When they arrived, the Russians were retiring.
On 5 November, the Russians attacked the allies with 42,000 men. The 68th had only 243 men. They started off being the only British regiment to wear red coats.
After seeing the Russians trying to outflank the Guards on Sandbag Battery, the 20th, part of the 46th and the 68th were sent against them. This made the Russians retreat to a valley below. The 68th followed the Russians too far, and were out of ammunition. On retiring along the valley, they found more Russians on a ridge above their right:
During this, the actions of Pte. John Byrne and Sgt. Daniel Dwyer returned to help the wounded. This led to Pte. John Byrne getting the Victoria Cross. The regiment reorganized, and got sent to 'The Barrier' for the rest of the battle.
The regiment stayed in the trenches for the siege of Sevastopol. The regiment had to fight the Russians from Sevastopol, on 12 January 1855.
By the end of February, the regiment had been rearmed with the new Enfield rifle. Another fight against approximately 2000 men took place on 11 May, with the help of the Rifle Brigade and the 46th Foot . A party of Russians succeeded in spiking a gun, but were driven back. In the Crimean War, there were 2 members of the 68th who were awarded with the Victoria Cross: Pte John Byrne and Captain Thomas de Courcy Hamilton.
The regiment stayed in the trenches. They were in reserve for the assault on the Redan on the 18 June and for the final attack on 8 September. They stayed in Crimea while an agreement was being made. In May 1856, they left for Corfu.
Two Victoria Crosses were granted. Nine more were applied for but not awarded. 15 D.C.M.s were given, seven awards of the French Legion of Honour, 13 of the Order of the Medjidie, six of the Sardinian Medal of Honour, and seven of the Médaille militaire. Nine officers and the men of the 68th received their Crimea Medal from Queen Victoria on 18 May 1855.
The regiment remained in Corfu until September 1857. Then they were shipped back to England. On 5 November, they were given new colours by the Duke of Cambridge. In December, it went to India to help suppress the Indian Mutiny. It arrived on 30 March 1858. On 1 November, the control of India passed from the East India Company to The Crown.
The regiment that had been resting in Burma was finally going to be returned to England in August 1863. However, the governor of New Zealand requested reinforcements to deal with hostilities with the Maoris. The regiment was shipped to New Zealand. They were there from October to November 1863.
Three ships arrived in Auckland in mid-January 1864. Immediately detachments were sent to Tauranga, Rangarir and Maketu.
In April, the Maoris returned and began to occupy Pas in the area, including two on the peninsula of Tauranga Harbour. The 68th who were concentrated in Auckland were sent to Tauranga, with several other detachments. Two redoubts were built, one by the 68th and another by the 43rd Regiment of Foot. The commanding officer, Major-General Cameron, wanted to destroy the Maori Pas as quickly as possible. On the evening of April 28, around 720 men of the 68th crossed the river to the rear of the Maori line. At around 4 in the evening, over 300 men of the 43rd Regiment and the Naval brigade charged the Maoris and routed them by around 5 o'clock. The 68th had set up a protective cordon to capture many of the enemy, but they did not have enough men to stop the Maoris from retreating completely and they escaped.
For six weeks, the 68th remained in the area of Te Papa, to make sure pās was not set up. On 21 June, the patrol of about 600 men from the 68th, 43rd, a local Regiment and the 1st Waikato Militia, led by LT. Colonel Greer from the 68th, found a similar sized patrol in some rifle pits. Greer sent for reinforcement. They came two hours later, then assaulted the rifle pit. Sgt. Murrey was awarded the Victoria Cross.
The 68th stayed in Te Papa until February 1864. Then they were sent to Wanganui. Distrust was growing between the Army and the local militias over the colonists taking more land. They went to Auckland in February 1866. They left New Zealand in March. They reached Portsmouth between mid June and early July.
The 68th had 3 members who were awarded the Victoria Cross, the highest award available in the British Military.
The people who were awarded the VC were:

</doc>
<doc id="540501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540501" title="Simi">
Simi

Simisola Bolatito Ogunleye (born ), also known as Simi, is a Nigerian singer and songwriter best known for her hit singles "Tiff" and "Jamb Question". She is signed to X3M Music since 2014
Simi was born in Surulere, Lagos State. She graduated from Covenant University where she majored in Mass Communication.
In 2006, Simi released her first project titled "Ogaju", a gospel music studio album that was entirely produced by Samklef.
In 2014, Simi released an EP tited "Restless", a 5-track cover of popular international songs which earned her a record deal with X3M Music in April 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="540505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540505" title="Durham Light Infantry">
Durham Light Infantry

The Durham Light Infantry was a light Infantry regiment in the British Army from 1881-1968. It started in 1881 after the merger of the 68th and 106th.
It was formed in 1881 by a joining of the 68th (Durham) Regiment of Foot (Light Infantry) and the 106th Regiment Of Foot (Bombay Light Infantry) along with the Militia and Volunteers of Durham county. 
They served notably in the Second Boer War, World War 1, World War II, the Korean War, and the Indonesia-Malaysia confrontation.
In 1968 the regiment was merged with the Somerset and Cornwall Light Infantry, King's own Yorkshire Light Infantry and the King's Shropshire Light Infantry to form The Light Infantry. The Light Infantry joined with the Devonshire and Dorset Regiment, Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment and the Royal Green Jackets to form The Rifles.
The Durham Light Infantry had 8 of its members to be awarded with the Victoria Cross, the highest award available in the British military.
In November 1915 Pte. Thomas Kenny of the 13th Battalion was awarded with a VC
In October 1916 Lieutenant Colonel Roland Bradford of the 9th Battalion was awarded with a VC
In May 1917 Pte Michael Heaviside of the 15th Battalion was awarded with a VC
In July 1917 2nd Lieutenant Frederick Youens of 13th Battalion was awarded with a VC
In December 1917 Captain Arthur Moore Lascelles of the 14th Battalion was awarded with a VC
In March 1918 Pte Thomas Young of the 9th Battalion was awarded with a VC
In May 1940 2nd Lieutenant Richard Annand of the 2nd Battalion was awarded with a VC
in June 1942 Pte Adam Herbert Wakenshaw of the 9th Battalion was awarded with a VC

</doc>
<doc id="540519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540519" title="Josh Robert Thompson">
Josh Robert Thompson

Josh Robert Thompson is a voice actor, comedian, puppeteer, and actor. He currently works on Family Guy. He is probably best known for voicing and being the puppeteer of Geoff Peterson on The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson.

</doc>
<doc id="540528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540528" title="Funicular">
Funicular

A funicular is a railway that uses trains that are pulled by cables wound around a pulley. This makes them able to climb very steep slopes, like those on hills and mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="540536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540536" title="Category:Nigerian musicians">
Category:Nigerian musicians


</doc>
<doc id="540537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540537" title="Category:Disease-related deaths in Nigeria">
Category:Disease-related deaths in Nigeria


</doc>
<doc id="540559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540559" title="Jean-Marie Girault">
Jean-Marie Girault

Jean-Marie Girault (9 February 1926 – 1 May 2016) was a French politician. He served as mayor of Caen from 1970 through 2001. He was a member of the Union for French Democracy. Girault was born in Pont-l'Évêque, France.
Girault died in Caen, France on 1 May 2016, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="540561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540561" title="Jonathan Cainer">
Jonathan Cainer

Jonathan Cainer (18 December 1957 – 2 May 2016) was a British astrologer. He wrote astrological predictions six days a week for the "Daily Mail". He also forecasts for three Australian newspapers, the "Sydney Daily Telegraph", the "Melbourne Herald Sun" and the "Perth Sunday Times". 
Cainer's predictions were also published in "Hello", the "Auckland Sunday News", the "Botswana Echo" and "Misty Magazine" (Japan). It has been estimated that over twelve million people read his predictions.
Cainer died of a heart attack on 2 May 2016, aged 58.

</doc>
<doc id="540563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540563" title="John Kaye (politician)">
John Kaye (politician)

John Kaye (23 October 1955 – 2 May 2016 ) was an Australian politician. He was elected to the New South Wales Legislative Council in 2007. He represented the Greens. He was known for his support of renewable energy and energy efficiency. He was a spokesperson for public schools and TAFE colleges.

</doc>
<doc id="540567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540567" title="Roger Millward">
Roger Millward

Roger Millward MBE (16 September 1947 – 2 May 2016) was an English rugby league footballer and coach. He was born in Castleford, West Riding of Yorkshire. Millward gained a high level of fame in the sport in England by playing for Hull Kingston Rovers and Castleford, as well as representing Great Britain. Millward was added into the Rugby League Hall of Fame.
Millward was awarded the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in 1983.
Millward died of jaw cancer in Kippax, West Yorkshire on 2 May 2016, aged 68.

</doc>
<doc id="540571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540571" title="Karel Pečko">
Karel Pečko

Karel Pečko (September 29, 1920 – May 2, 2016) was a Slovenian artist. In 1957, he created an arts pavilion (art school). In 1963, he became the school's principal. From 1975 to 1991, he was in charge of a cultural institute in Slovenj Gradec. He also led the Slovenj Gradec Art Gallery () until 1997. In 1996, he was honored with the Honorary Medal of Freedom of the Republic of Slovenia.
Pečko died in Slovenj Gradec on May 2, 2016 at the age of 95.

</doc>
<doc id="540574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540574" title="Afeni Shakur">
Afeni Shakur

Afeni Shakur (born Alice Faye Williams; January 10, 1947 – May 2, 2016) was an American music businesswoman, philanthropist, political activist and Black Panther. She was the mother of the late rapper Tupac Shakur. Shakur was in Federal Court on July 20, 2007, to file an injunction to prevent Death Row Records from selling any unreleased material from Tupac. 
Shakur died in Sausalito, California from a heart attack on May 2, 2016, aged 69.

</doc>
<doc id="540579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540579" title="Ian Deans">
Ian Deans

Ian Deans (August 16, 1937 – 3 May 2016) was a Canadian politician. He was born in Kilmarnock, Scotland but raised in Ontario, Canada. He was a New Democratic member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1967 to 1979. He was a member of the Canadian House of Commons from 1980 to 1986.
Deans died in Hamilton, Ontario on 3 May 2016 from Parkinson's disease, aged 78.

</doc>
<doc id="540584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540584" title="Wizkid">
Wizkid

Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun (born ), also known as Wizkid is a Nigerian recording artist and songwriter. He is the founder of Star Boy Entertainment, a record label he established in 2013.
Wizkid started singing in 2001. At the age of 11, he released a collaborative studio album with Glorious Five album titled "Lil Prinz" before he went solo to record his first song with OJB Jezreel.
In 2011, Wizkid released his critically acclaim debut studio album titled "Superstar" with hit singles like "Holla at Your Boy", "Don't Dull" and "Tease Me (Bad Guys)" on the tracklist. "Superstar" shot Wizkid to limelight, following it's nomination at The Headies 2012 and at the 2012 Nigeria Entertainment Awards which it won "Best Album of The Year".
On September 17, 2014, "Ayo" was released as Wizkid's sophomore album. The album contained hit tracks like "Ojuelegba", "Jaiye Jaiye" and "Show You The Money". "Ayo" won the "Best Album of The Year" and "Best R&B/Pop Album" categories at The Headies 2015 and was also nominated in the "Album of The Year" category at the 2015 Nigeria Entertainment Awards. Wizkid has been working on releasing an EP titled "Sounds From The Other Side".
In 2016, he worked with Drake on his hit single "One Dance", which reached number-one in 15 different countries.

</doc>
<doc id="540585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540585" title="Helmut Rohde">
Helmut Rohde

Helmut Rohde (9 November 1925 – 16 April 2016) was a German politician. He was born in Hanover. He served as Federal Minister of Education and Science from 1974 to 1978.
Rohde died in Bonn, Germany on 16 April 2016, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="540586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540586" title="Johan van Minnen">
Johan van Minnen

Johan Tjitze van Minnen (31 October 1932 – 18 April 2016) was a Dutch journalist and politician. He was a foreign correspondent in first Luxembourg and later West Germany. From 1975 and 1978, he was the ombudsman of the television show "De Ombudsman". 
Van Minnen served as a member of the European Parliament for the Labour Party between 1979 and 1984.
Van Minnen died on 18 April 2016 in Zeist, Netherlands, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="540592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540592" title="Marco Leto">
Marco Leto

Marco Leto (18 January 1931 – 21 April 2016) was an Italian movie director and screenwriter. He was known for his movies "Black Holiday" (1973) and "Al piacere di rivederla" (1976). He was born in Rome, Italy. His career began in 1960 and he retired in 1993.
Leto died in Rome, Italy on 21 April 2016, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="540594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540594" title="Robert Dolan (marine geologist)">
Robert Dolan (marine geologist)

Robert "Bob" Dolan (April 5, 1929 – April 24, 2016) was an American marine geologist. He was a professor of Coastal Geology at the University of Virginia. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He was the co-creator of the Dolan/Davis Scale for Nor'easter.
Dolan died in Charlottesville, Virginia at the age of 87 on April 24, 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="540596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540596" title="Walter Jackson Freeman III">
Walter Jackson Freeman III

Walter Jackson Freeman III (January 30, 1927 – April 24, 2016) was an American biologist, theoretical neuroscientist and philosopher. He was known for his research in how brains generate meaning. His main body of research was on the work of rabbits using electroencephalography. He was born in Washington, D.C.. He was the Professor Emeritus of Neurobiology at the University of California Berkeley.
Freeman died at his home in Berkeley, California on April 24, 2016 from pulmonary fibrosis, aged 89.

</doc>
<doc id="540597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540597" title="Michal Hornstein">
Michal Hornstein

Michal Hornstein (September 17, 1920 – April 25, 2016) was a Polish-born Canadian businessman, art collector and philanthropist. He was born in Kraków, Poland. He moved to Canada after surviving the Holocaust. He became a citizen in 1957. He was known for donating money to art museums and schools in Quebec. In 1984 he was made a Member of the Order of Canada. In 1993, he was made a Knight of the National Order of Quebec. He was made Officer in 2002 and Grand Officer in 2013.
Hornstein died at his home in Montreal, Quebec on April 25, 2016, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="540598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540598" title="Martin Szipál">
Martin Szipál

Martin Szipál (born Márton Szipál; May 6, 1924 – April 26, 2016), also known as Martin S. Martin, was a Hungarian photographer. He was known for his portrait photography of movie stars and celebrities. He was born in Szolnok. 
He worked with many magazines and took pictures of many famous celebrities such as John Wayne, Tommy Lee Jones, Leslie Nielsen, Charlene Tilton, Margaux Hemingway, Timothy Hutton, Priscilla Presley and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.
Szipál returned to Hungary in 1997, where he worked for newspapers and taught in several photographer schools. He died of prostate cancer in his home in Budapest on April 26, 2016, just before turning 92.

</doc>
<doc id="540599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540599" title="Edward Ashmore">
Edward Ashmore

Admiral of the Fleet Sir Edward Beckwith Ashmore (11 December 1919 – 28 April 2016) was a senior Royal Navy officer. He was born in Queenstown, Ireland.
He was in active service in the Second World War. He later commanded two frigates before achieving high command in the Navy. He served as First Sea Lord and Chief of the Naval Staff in the mid-1970s. He went on to be Chief of the Defence Staff, serving briefly. In retirement he became a Director of Racal Electronics and a Governor of Suttons Hospital in London.
Ashmore died on 28 April 2016 in London at the age of 96.

</doc>
<doc id="540600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540600" title="Vasily Zvyagintsev">
Vasily Zvyagintsev

Vasily Dmitrievich Zvyagintsev (; November 21, 1944 – April 30, 2016) was a Russian science fiction author. He was born in Grozny. He wrote his only novel series "Odysseus leaves Ithaca", set during World War II. The series was liked by literary critics. It contains more than 10 volumes. He won the Aelita Prize, Interpesscon, А. R. Belyaev award and special international award Eurocon.
Zvyagintsev died on April 30, 2016 in Stavropol, Russia from a heart attack, aged 71.

</doc>
<doc id="540602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540602" title="Uwe Friedrichsen">
Uwe Friedrichsen

Uwe Friedrichsen (27 May 1934 – 30 April 2016) was a German movie and television actor. He was born in Hamburg, Germany. He was known for his roles in "Faust", "John Kling", "Maximilian von Mexiko", "Sesamstraße", and "Schwarz Rot Gold".
Friedrichsen died in Hamburg, Germany from complications of pneumonia on 30 April 2016, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="540603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540603" title="Marisol Escobar">
Marisol Escobar

Marisol Escobar (May 22, 1930 – April 30, 2016), otherwise known simply as Marisol, was a French-born sculptor of Venezuelan heritage. She worked in New York City. Marisol has received awards including the 1997 Premio Gabriela Mistral from the Organization of American States for her contribution to Inter-American culture. In 2004, Marisol's work was featured in "MoMA at El Museo", an exhibition of Latin American artists held at the Museum of Modern Art.
Marisol died on April 30, 2016 in New York City from pneumonia, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="540605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540605" title="Daniel Aaron">
Daniel Aaron

Daniel Aaron (August 4, 1912 – April 30, 2016) was an American writer and academic. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. He helped found the Library of America in 1979. He served as president until 1985. He was later a board member and remained an emeritus board member. His latest work is an autobiography, "The Americanist" (2007). He taught at Smith College from 1971 through 1980. 
Aaron died in Cambridge, Massachusetts on April 30, 2016 from complications of pneumonia, aged 103.

</doc>
<doc id="540607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540607" title="Daniel Berrigan">
Daniel Berrigan

Daniel Joseph Berrigan, S.J. (May 9, 1921 – April 30, 2016), was an American Jesuit priest, anti-war activist, and poet. He moved to Syracuse, New York at age five. He was known for protesting against the Vietnam War during the 1970s. It also landed him on the FBI's "most wanted list", on the cover of "TIME" magazine, and in prison. In 1980, he founded the Plowshares Movement, an anti-nuclear protest group, that put him back into the national spotlight.
Berrigan died on April 30, 2016 in The Bronx, New York City after a long-illness, aged 94.

</doc>
<doc id="540608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540608" title="Dmytro Hnatyuk">
Dmytro Hnatyuk

Dmytro Hnatyuk (; 28 March 1925 – 29 April 2016) was a Ukrainian baritone opera singer and a former member of the Ukrainian Parliament. He was a singer at the Kiev Opera and Ballet Theatre appearing as a soloist in many songs. Hnatyuk was elected the head of the Musical Society of Ukraine.
Hnatyuk died on 29 April 2016, aged 91. He was buried at Kiev's Baikove Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="540610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540610" title="Solomon W. Golomb">
Solomon W. Golomb

Solomon Wolf Golomb (May 30, 1932 – May 1, 2016) was an American mathematician, engineer and professor of electrical engineering at the University of Southern California. 
He was best known for his works on mathematical games. He invented Cheskers in 1948 and coined the name. He also fully described polyominoes and pentominoes in 1953. He was born in Baltimore, Maryland. He has specialized in problems of combinatorial analysis, number theory, coding theory and communications. His game of pentomino inspired Tetris.
Golomb died in Los Angeles, California on May 1, 2016 from heart failure, aged 83.

</doc>
<doc id="540613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540613" title="Bianca">
Bianca

Bianca might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="540617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540617" title="Air Nigeria">
Air Nigeria

Air Nigeria used to be the flag carrier of Nigeria between 2004 and 2012. It was founded by the Virgin Group on September 28, 2004. It was originally called Virgin Nigeria Airways. The first flight happened on June 28, 2005. The name was changed to Nigerian Eagle Airlines in 2009. It started a frequent-flyer program called "Eagleflier". The Virgin Group sold the airline in 2010 to the NICON Group. The name was finally changed to Air Nigeria in 2010. Air Nigeria's flying license was taken away on June 13, 2012. The airline shut down on September 12, 2012. There were plans to restart the airline in 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="540632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540632" title="Sheikh Mujibur Rahman">
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman

Sheikh Mujibur Rahman (17 March 1920 - 15 August 1975) was the founding leader of Bangladesh. He was the first and fourth president of Bangladesh. He was also the second prime minister. Rahman was assassinated.

</doc>
<doc id="540650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540650" title="Category:British columnists">
Category:British columnists


</doc>
<doc id="540651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540651" title="Battle of Inkerman">
Battle of Inkerman

The Battle of Inkerman was fought on 5 November 1854 during the Crimean War. British and French troops defeated the Imperial Russian Army. The British Army suffered 597 killed and 1,860 were wounded. The French lost 143 killed and 750 were wounded. The Russians lost 10,729 killed and wounded. The battle broke the spirit of the Russian Army which never again fielded an army against the British and French allies. It was followed by the Siege of Sevastopol.
The allied armies of Britain, France, Sardinia, and the Ottoman Empire had landed on the west coast of Crimea on September 14, 1854. They meant to capture the Russian naval base at Sevastopol. They defeated the Russian army in the Battle of Alma. The allies could have attacked Sevastopol, but the British general and the French commander could not agree on a plan of attack.
Instead, they decided to march around the city, and put Sevastopol under siege. Towards the end the allies marched to the southern coast of the Crimean and set up a supply port in the city of Balaklava. Before the siege the Russian commander retreated out of Sevastopol. On 25 October 1854, a Russian force attacked the British base at Balaklava. The attack failed before they could reach it, but the Russian had a strong hold on the British line.
 

</doc>
<doc id="540696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540696" title="Jan Oort">
Jan Oort

Jan Hendrik Oort FRS (28 April 1900 – 5 November 1992) was a Dutch astronomer.
Oort made significant contributions to understanding the Milky Way, and was a pioneer in the field of radio astronomy. His New York Times obituary called him “one of the century's foremost explorers of the universe”. The European Space Agency website describes him as, “one of the greatest astronomers of the 20th century”, and says he “revolutionised astronomy through his ground-breaking discoveries”. 
In 1955, Oort’s name appeared in Life Magazine’s list of the 100 most famous living people. He has been described as “putting the Netherlands in the forefront of postwar astronomy”.
Oort proved that the Milky Way rotates. Finding that the visible mass was not enough to explain the rotation, he suggested the existence of invisible dark matter, in 1932. This is now thought to make up aboout 84.5% of the total matter in the Universe. Its gravitational pull causes “the clustering of stars into galaxies and galaxies into connecting strings of galaxies”.
The Solar System's Oort cloud is named after him. 

</doc>
<doc id="540717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540717" title="Category:Battles involving Russia">
Category:Battles involving Russia


</doc>
<doc id="540719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540719" title="Lagos State">
Lagos State

Lagos State, sometimes referred to as Lagos, is a state located in the southwestern part of Nigeria. It is economically one of most busiest states in Nigeria. The capital of Lagos State is Ikeja.
Lagos State was created on 27 May 1967. It was previously known as Eko until the arrival of Portuguese merchants. The word Eko was coined out from a Yoruba word "Eko" (English: war camp). The first settlers of Eko were the Aworis.
Lagos State is divided into 20 local government areas from 5 administrative divisions. The local government areas include:

</doc>
<doc id="540724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540724" title="Taran Killam">
Taran Killam

Taran Killam (born April 1, 1982) is an American actor, comedian and singer. He is a cast member on "Saturday Night Live" and one of the leading males on the show and plays a variety of characters and does a variety of impressions.

</doc>
<doc id="540740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540740" title="Category:Biography with signature">
Category:Biography with signature


</doc>
<doc id="540758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540758" title="Polynomial remainder theorem">
Polynomial remainder theorem

The polynomial remainder theorem states that:
for every polynomial formula_1 and every real number formula_2 the remainder of division of formula_1 by formula_4 is formula_5.
This theorem can easily be proven, but it is important for various calculations.
If we divided formula_1 by formula_4, it means that we found such formula_8 and formula_9, that
formula_10.
Let formula_11. Then formula_12 Q.E.D.
Let's divide formula_13 by formula_14.
The theorem says that the remainder will be equal to formula_15
So, let's divide formula_16 by formula_14: formula_18.
We get that formula_19.
Sometimes, it can be difficult to calculate formula_5 fast (if the polynomial is very big). There exist methods of fast division by formula_4, so the computing the remainder could be easier than the whole function.
The theorem itself is also very important for theoretical use. Its proof can easily be applied to another similar objects with little changes. It is used, for example, in the fundamental theorem of algebra, in the form of a generalisation in complex numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="540767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540767" title="Western Wall Plaza">
Western Wall Plaza

Western Wall Plaza is a Town square in the Jewish Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem beside the Western Wall the located in the eastern side of the square. the square was established in 1967 after the unite of the city. in the northern side of the square located the: Western Wall Tunnel and the The Chain of Generations Center. in the southern side of the square located the: Jerusalem Archaeological Park and the Dung Gate. in the western side of the square located the Jewish Quarter.

</doc>
<doc id="540779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540779" title="Bianca's Kids">
Bianca's Kids

Bianca's Kids is a non-profit organization which was founded by Deborah Anne Savigliano in 2010. Its headquarters are in Williamstown, New Jersey. Its mission is to grant wishes to foster children and other children with special needs. Bianca's Kids was started by Savigliano to honor the memory of her 21 year old niece Bianca Yodice. She was studying to be a Social worker when she died in a car accident in 2010. Yodice loved kids and her aunt wanted to make sure she was remembered.
The 501(c) organization grants wishes to children who suffer from physical, emotional or financial issues. The group sees every child in need as deserving their attention. They obtain donations in order to help buy what the kids they help need. This includes medical devices such as braces and wheelchairs.
Since the organization started, Bianca's Kids has granted over 13,000 wishes to children in New Jersey as well as other parts of the world. Some of these wishes have included school backpacks, sports equipment and memorabilia. The charity has also provided things such as prom dresses and even diapers. In 2015, the organization granted a wish to a disabled student to travel to Disney World with his classmates. According to GreatNonprofits, $.95 of every dollar donated to Bianca's Kids goes to the children it helps. In 2014, Bianca's Kids was named a "Top-Rated 2014 Nonprofit" by GreatNonprofits, the leading reviewer of nonprofit organizations.
Savigliano wrote a book about Bianca's Kids in February 2015. The book was made into a documentary film, "From Grief to Gratitude." The movie premiered on June 4, 2016 in Williamstown, New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="540780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540780" title="Eaman al-Gobory">
Eaman al-Gobory

Eaman al-Gobory (Arabic language:إيمان الجبوري ) is a doctor from Iraq. In 2008, she received the International Women of Courage Award. 
A-Gobory graduated from Baghdad Medical School. Then she went to work in Yemen, because she did not want to be in Saddam Hussein’s Baath Party in Iraq. She returned to Iraq in 2003, after the war started. She wanted to help the Iraqi people. 
Al-Gobory is the National Medical Officer for the International Organization of Migration, an international organization that helps people. She helps Iraqi children get medical care in the U.S. and around the world. The children receive plastic surgery, prosthetic limbs and heart surgery. The International Organization of Migration helped 300 men, women and children to go to hospitals in 19 countries. 
Al-Gobory also helped build the Iraqi health care system with education. She worked with Project Hope, Operation Smile, the National Spinal Cord Injury Association, and Operation Give. She was also a senior advisor to Taha group, a member of the UNDC (Uniited Nations Global Compact), that helps with health and staff development. 
In 2011, al-Gobory became the Iraqi Director of Wamar Medical Services, a part of Wamar International, LLC. Wamar Medical Services works with NATO, the United States Department of State, and the International Office for Migration to bring medical care to Iraq and Afghanistan. 

</doc>
<doc id="540784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540784" title="Bill Timoney">
Bill Timoney

Bill Timoney, (born William Regan Timoney on March 5, 1958 in Teaneck, New Jersey) is an American actor, voice actor, director, script writer and producer who is the brother of actor Mike Timoney and son of Mary Gardiner, of The Big Surprise fame, he is also known for playing Alfred Vanderpool in "All My Children". He is married to fellow actress Georgette Reilly. He is also known for providing voice-over work in anime.

</doc>
<doc id="540786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540786" title="Princess Carolina Augusta of the Two Sicilies">
Princess Carolina Augusta of the Two Sicilies

Princess Carolina Augusta of the Two Sicilies (26 April 1822 - 6 December 1869) was born a Princess of the Two Sicilies as a granddaughter of Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies. She was also a daughter-in-law of King Louis Philippe I of the French. As a result of her marriage she was also a Princess of Orléans.
On 15 November 1844 the young Carolina Augusta was married to Prince Henri of Orléans, Duke of Aumale in Naples. She continued to use the style of "Royal Highness".
Carolina Augusta remained inconsolable over the death of her eldest son, Louis, and died in exile at Twickenham, England, in 1869 from infectious tuberculosis. She and her husband had a loving marriage and after the death of his wife, Henri preferred to remain a widower until his own death in 1897. Carolina Augusta was later buried at the Royal Chapel of Dreux in France.

</doc>
<doc id="540791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540791" title="Andrew Rannells">
Andrew Rannells

Andrew Scott Rannells (born August 23, 1978) is an American actor, voice actor, and singer. He is perhaps best known for his work as Elder Price in the 2011 Broadway musical The Book of Mormon, which earned him a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actor in a Musical. He is also best known for his role as Elijah Krantz in "Girls".
Rannells is of Polish and Irish descent, and he is openly gay. Rannells currently lives in New York City after temporarily re-locating to Los Angeles to film "The New Normal".

</doc>
<doc id="540803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540803" title="Ingram Olkin">
Ingram Olkin

Ingram Olkin (July 23, 1924 – April 28, 2016) was an American professor. He was the professor emeritus and chair of statistics and education at Stanford University and the Stanford Graduate School of Education. He was known for creating statistical analysis for evaluating policies, such as in education, and for his works to meta-analysis, statistics education, multivariate analysis, and majorization theory.
Olkin died from complications of colorectal cancer at his home in Palo Alto, California on April 28, 2016, aged 91.

</doc>
<doc id="540804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540804" title="Alyson Bailes">
Alyson Bailes

Alyson Judith Kirtley Bailes CMG (6 April 1949 – 29 April 2016) was an English diplomat, political scientist, academic and polyglot. She served as the British Ambassador to Finland from November 2000 to June 2002. She was born in Liverpool.
Bailed died on 29 April 2016 of pancreatic cancer in Glasgow, Scotland, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="540807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540807" title="Air Namibia">
Air Namibia

Air Namibia is the flag carrier of Namibia. It is based in Windhoek. It began in 1947 with the name South West Air Transport. The name was changed to Namib Air in 1966. The government of South Africa bought the airline in 1982. The Air Namibia name was introduced in October 1991. In 2009, Air Namibia launched a frequent-flyer program. It is called Reward$. Before 2013, Air Namibia used to borrow planes from other companies. In 2011, Air Namibia bought two new Airbus A319. They were delivered in 2013 and are now owned by the airline. 

</doc>
<doc id="540808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540808" title="March of the Volunteers">
March of the Volunteers

The song called March of the Volunteers is the national anthem of the People's Republic of China.
If you can read Chinese, the text of the song is as follows:
<poem>
Official Lyrics:
English Translation:
Arise! All who refuse to be slaves!
Let our flesh and blood become our new Great Wall!
As the Chinese nation faces its greatest peril,
All forcefully expend their last cries.
Arise! Arise! Arise!
Our million hearts beat as one,
Brave the enemy's fire, March on!
Brave the enemy's fire, March on!
March on! March on! On!
</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="540813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540813" title="Kaname Harada">
Kaname Harada

Harada died on 3 May 2016 in Nagano, Japan from multiple organ failure at the age of 99.

</doc>
<doc id="540814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540814" title="Jean-Baptiste Bagaza">
Jean-Baptiste Bagaza

Colonel Jean-Baptiste Bagaza (29 August 1946 – 4 May 2016) was a Burundian politician. He was the Chairman of the Supreme Revolutionary Council in Burundi until November 10, 1976. He was President from November 10, 1976 to September 3, 1987. Bagaza was deposed in a military coup d'état. He was replaced as president by Pierre Buyoya. He went into exile in Uganda and later went to Libya, where he lived until 1993.
Bagaza died from unknown causes at a hospital in Brussels, Belgium on 4 May 2016, aged 69.

</doc>
<doc id="540815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540815" title="Jadranka Stojaković">
Jadranka Stojaković

Jadranka Stojaković (24 July 1950 – 3 May 2016) was a Sarajevo-born Yugoslav singer-songwriter. She was popular in the former Yugoslavia. She was known for her unique voice. Her best known hits are "Sve smo mogli mi", "Što te nema" and "Bistre vode Bosnom teku".
Stojaković died on 3 May 2016 from motor neurone disease at a nursing home in Banjaluka, Bosnia and Herzegovina, aged 65.

</doc>
<doc id="540816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540816" title="Olle Ljungström">
Olle Ljungström

Lars Olof "«Olle»" Gustaf Ljungström (12 August 1961 – 4 May 2016) was a Swedish singer-songwriter and guitarist. Ljungström grew up in Vaxholm. He was vocalist and guitarist in the group Reeperbahn from 1979 until 1984. The group made three more full-length albums, "Venuspassagen" (1981), "Peep-Show" (1983) and "Intriger" (1983) before splitting up in 1984. Since the early 1990s, he performed solo.
Ljungström was found dead in his home in Alingsås on 4 May 2016, aged 54.

</doc>
<doc id="540817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540817" title="Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd">
Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd

Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd (4 June 1934 – 3 May 2016) was a Swedish painter and sculptor. He was a professor of painting at The Academy of Fine Arts in Stockholm from 1965 until 1969. In 1974, he was a guest professor at Minneapolis School of Art in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In 1986 he was awarded the Prince Eugen Medal for painting.
Reuterswärd was known for his sculpture showing a revolver tied in a knot, called "Non violence". It is outside of the United Nations Headquarters in New York City. 
Reuterswärd died of pneumonia at a hospital in Landskrona, Sweden on 3 May 2016, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="540818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540818" title="Jane Jacobs">
Jane Jacobs

Jane Jacobs (May 4, 1916 – April 25, 2006) was a Canadian and American journalist, author and activist. She had an influence on urban studies. Her book "The Death and Life of Great American Cities" said that urban renewal did not respect the needs of most city people. 
Jacobs was well known for making grassroots efforts to protect existing neighborhoods from "slum clearance". In 1968, she was arrested for inciting a crowd on the cancellation of Lower Manhattan Expressway. Also in 1968, she moved to Toronto. In Toronto, she criticized the building of the Spadina Expressway (now Allen Road). 
Jacobs got the second Vincent Scully prize from the National Building Museum in 2000.
Jacobs was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. She died from a stroke in Toronto at age 89.

</doc>
<doc id="540828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540828" title="Nick Drake">
Nick Drake

Nick Drake (19 June 1948 – 25 November 1974) was an English singer-songwriter. He was best-known for his acoustic guitar songs. He was not popular with a wide audience while he was alive, but his work has now gained recognition.
He was born to British parents in Yangon, Burma. He has an older sister Gabrielle Drake who is an actress. He released his first album "Five Leaves Left" in 1969. He then released two more albums: "Bryter Layter" (1971) and "Pink Moon" (1972). 
On 25 November 1974, at the age of 26, Drake died from an overdose of approximately 30 antidepressant pills. His cause of death was determined to be suicide.

</doc>
<doc id="540829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540829" title="Category:People from Teaneck, New Jersey">
Category:People from Teaneck, New Jersey


</doc>
<doc id="540835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540835" title="Category:Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska">
Category:Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska


</doc>
<doc id="540890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540890" title="Prince Henri, Duke of Aumale">
Prince Henri, Duke of Aumale

Prince Henri of Orléans, Duke of Aumale (Henri Eugène Philippe Louis; 16 January 1822 – 7 May 1897) was a leader of the Orleanists, a political faction in 19th century France associated with constitutional monarchy. He was born in Paris, the fifth son of King Louis Philippe I. He used the title Duke of Aumale. He retired from public life in 1883. He was also a member of the "Académie française". 
At age of 8, he inherited a fortune of 66 million livres (approximately £200 million today). At the age of seventeen he entered the army with the rank of a captain of infantry.
On November 25, 1844, he married Princess Carolina Augusta of the Two Sicilies, daughter of the Leopold of the Two Sicilies, "Prince of Salerno" and his wife Maria Clementina of Austria, in Naples. The couple had several children, two of whom reached adulthood.
By his will of the June 3, 1884, Henri bequeathed his Chantilly estate to the Institute of France. This included the Château de Chantilly, with all the art he had collected there. The chateau became a museum. This generosity led the government to withdraw the decree of exile and the duke returned to France in 1889. He died in Lo Zucco, Sicily. He was buried in Dreux, in the chapel of the House of Orléans.

</doc>
<doc id="540913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540913" title="Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley">
Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley

Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley, KG (c. 1508-20 March 1549) was the brother of the English Queen Jane Seymour (the third wife of King Henry VIII) and uncle to King Edward VI. He was also the fourth husband of Catherine Parr who was the sixth and last wife of Henry VIII. 
Thomas was the son of Sir John Seymour and Margaret Wentworth. He grew up at Wulfhall in Wiltshire. He was the brother to Edward Seymour, Elizabeth Seymour and Jane Seymour.
Henry VIII married Jane Seymour in May 1536, eleven days after he executed his second wife, Anne Boleyn. Thomas and his older brother Edward, both saw their fortunes rise, as they became part of the royal family.
In October of the following year, Jane gave birth to a son, Edward Tudor, who would become King Edward VI. Less than two weeks later, Queen Jane died as a result of giving birth, leaving Thomas as an uncle to the baby prince, and in a very powerful position. 
King Henry VIII died in January 1547, leaving his son, Edward VI, as King of England. Thomas's older brother Edward Seymour, became Lord Protector of England, in effect, ruler of England as Regent for his nephew, the king. Thomas was very jealous of his brother's power and worked to replace his brother as Lord Protector.
In April or May of 1547, Thomas secretly married Henry VIII’s widow- Catherine Parr. As they married so soon after Henry VIII's death, many people turned against them.
Upon their marriage, Thomas moved into his wife’s house, where they lived with Henry VIII's youngest daughter- who would later become Elizabeth I. When living in the same house, Thomas had a close relationship with Elizabeth. 
When his wife Catherine became pregnant in the spring of 1548, she was worried enough about her husband’s relationship with Elizabeth that she sent her away to live elsewhere. In September 1548, Catherine gave birth to a daughter, but died soon after.
Upon her death, Catherine left all of her possessions to Thomas, making him one of the richest men in England.
Despite the amount of power and money Thomas now had, he was still jealous that his brother was Lord Protector. He began publicly saying that his brother was not good enough at ruling.
By 1548, Edward Seymour and others responsible for running the country were becoming aware that Thomas was trying to take power. Thomas would not try to explain himself.
On the night of 16 January 1549, Thomas was caught trying to break into the King's apartments at Hampton Court Palace. The next day, he was arrested and sent to the Tower of London. He was found guilty of treason. Thomas was beheaded on 20 March 1549.

</doc>
<doc id="540926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540926" title="Blönduós">
Blönduós

Blönduós is a town and municipality in northwest Iceland. It has a population of 881 people. It is located next to Route 1 at the end of the Blanda river. On a hill above the town is a church with striking architecture that is supposed to look like a volcanic crater. Blönduós does not have a good harbour. It is mainly used as dairy service centre for the nearby farm areas. Many people in the city work in agriculture, industry and fishing.

</doc>
<doc id="540927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540927" title="Category:Municipalities of Iceland">
Category:Municipalities of Iceland


</doc>
<doc id="540931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540931" title="Assyrian calendar">
Assyrian calendar

The Assyrian calendar is a lunar-based calendar that begins in the year 4750 BC.  The Assyrian calendar is inspired by an estimate of the date of the first temple at Assur. The Assyrian new year is still celebrated every year by many people. This calendar is official among ethnic Assyrians in Iraq, Syria, Palestine, Armenia, Jordan, Lebanon, parts of Turkey and Iran.
This calendar begins 4,750 years before the Gregorian calendar. For example, it is set out like this: 2016+4750 = Assyrian year 6766.

</doc>
<doc id="540932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540932" title="Mel Bartholomew">
Mel Bartholomew

Mel Bartholomew (December 14, 1931 – May 2, 2016) was an American gardener, inventor, businessman, television presenter and writer. He was born in Kingston, New York, but was raised in California. He was known for creating Square foot gardening. His first book "Square Foot Gardening" was the largest selling gardening book in American history. He had a show about his gardening skills called "Square Foot Gardening" for eight years.
Bartholomew died in San Diego, California from liver cancer on May 2, 2016, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="540937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540937" title="Karol Machata">
Karol Machata

Karol Machata (13 January 1928 – 3 May 2016) was a Slovak actor. He appeared in more than 40 movies and television shows between 1951 and 1992. He was added into the Hall of Fame at the 8th OTO Awards in 2007. He was known for his roles in "St. Peter's Umbrella" (1958) and in "A Song About the Gray Pigeon" (1961). He was born in Malacky, Czechoslovakia.
Machata died on 3 May 2016 in Bratislava, Slovakia at the age of 88.

</doc>
<doc id="540938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540938" title="Dung Gate">
Dung Gate

Dung Gate (also Gate of Silwan or the Moroccan Gate) is one of the gates to the Old City of Jerusalem. It is the entrance to the Western Wall Plaza from the old city walls. It is the central entrance to the old city from the south.

</doc>
<doc id="540940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540940" title="Janusz Tazbir">
Janusz Tazbir

Janusz Tazbir (August 5, 1927 – May 3, 2016) was a Polish historian. He worked in the subject of the culture and religion of Poland in the 16th and 17th centuries. He was born in Kałuszyn. He wrote over 1,000 books and essays about the history of Poland. 
Tazbir died on May 3, 2016 in Warsaw, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="540946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540946" title="Clockers">
Clockers

Clockers is a 1995 American hood and crime drama movie. It is about life in the projects. Spike Lee directed the movie. It is based on 1992 novel Clockers.
In a Brooklyn housing project, clockers – street level drug dealers – sell drugs for a man named Rodney Little. Rodney tells one of his lead drug dealers, Ronald "Strike" Durham, that another dealer, Darryl Adams, is stealing from him and needs to be killed. Rodney wants Strike to murder Darryl. Strike then meets with his brother, Victor Dunham, and wants Victor to kill Darryl Adams.
"Clockers" got positive reviews from the movie critics. Roger Ebert gave this movie three and a half stars. Rotten Tomatoes said that 67% of reviewers viewed it positively.

</doc>
<doc id="540949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540949" title="Elizabeth Blount">
Elizabeth Blount

Elizabeth Blount (/ / – 1539/1540), often called Bessie Blount, was famous for having an affair with King Henry VIII of England.
Blount was the daughter of Sir John Blount and Catherine Pershall, of Shropshire. 
Not much is known about Elizabeth Blount's early years, not even her year of birth.
She became a lady-in-waiting (a type of personal helper) to Queen Catherine of Aragon. She became King Henry's lover during 1514 or 1515.
Blount's relationship with Henry VIII lasted a long time compared to many of his other affairs. On 15 June 1519, Blount and the King had a son, named Henry FitzRoy. After FitzRoy was born, their affair ended.
In 1522, Blount married Gilbert Tailboys, 1st Baron Tailboys of Kyme. By this marriage, she had two sons and one daughter.  Her husband, Tailboys, died in 1530.
On 23 July 1536, Henry VIII and Blount's son Henry FitzRoy died, probably of tuberculosis.
Blount then married Edward Clinton at some point between 1533 and 1535. They had three daughters.
Blount died in 1539 or 1540.

</doc>
<doc id="540954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540954" title="Raritan River">
Raritan River

The Raritan River is a major river of New Jersey in the United States. It is receives water from the mountainous area of the central part of the state. The water empties into the Raritan Bay on the Atlantic Ocean.
Geologists believe that the Raritan provided the course of the mouth of the Hudson River.
The river forms at near the border of Somerville, of Bridgewater, Branchburg, and Hillsborough Townships. It flows for 16 mi (25.7km). Then it slows into in tidewater t New Brunsw. Its estuary extends 14 mi (22.5 km) m.oIt re ensing the western end of Raritan_Bay at South Amboy.
The river has served an important water transportation route for a while. The name Raritan comes from the Raritan people, an Algonquian Native American tribe that inhabited Staten Island. In colonial days, the river allowed the development of early industry around New Brunswick. During the American Revolutionary War, the river provided a means for troop conveyance.
Efforts have been taken to reduce the pollution and increase water quality. These actions have helped the resident fish population. These include largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, sunfish, catfish, trout, chain pickerel, american eels, carp and yellow perch. Some parts of the river include striped bass, fluke, winter flounder, weakfish and bluefish. Many birds live along the length of the river. Crustaceans such as blue claw crab, fiddler crabs and green crabs are also found in the tidal sections of the river. Crayfish can be found farther upstream.
The river is also used for recreational boating, including use by the rowing team of Rutgers University in New Brunswick. The river is featured in the title of Rutgers' alma mater, "On the Banks of the Old Raritan", and its flooding is mentioned in the song. The musical "1776" mentions troops bathing in the Raritan River.
Near its mouth, the river has a New Jersey Transit railroad bridge. There is the Victory Bridge that carries Route 35 (connecting Perth Amboy and Sayreville, New Jersey); the Edison Bridge, which carries U.S. Route 9 (connecting Woodbridge Township and Sayreville); and the Driscoll Bridge, which carries the Garden State Parkway (connecting Woodbridge Township and Sayreville).
The Raritan River is an important source of drinking water for the central portion of New Jersey.
The Raritan River has flooding problems when massive rain from storms affects the river basin. 
In August 2011, record flooding occurred once again after Hurricane Irene swept through the area.

</doc>
<doc id="540955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540955" title="Somerset County, New Jersey">
Somerset County, New Jersey

Somerset County is a county located in the U.S. state of New Jersey.
Somerset County is one of America's oldest counties, and is named after the English county of Somerset. The area was first settled in 1681.
Most of the early residents were Dutch. General George Washington and his troops marched through the county on several occasions and slept in many of the homes located throughout the area. Somerset County also played an important part during both World War I and World War II with weapons depots and the manufacturing of the army's woolen blankets.
Somerset County was primarily an agricultural county. In the late 19th century, the county saw many wealthy people come to live. The area is still the home of several wealthy people who were in the pharmaceutical industry.
In the 1960s, townships that were once exclusively agricultural were quickly transformed into suburban communities. Examples include Bridgewater Township and the Watchung Hills communities of Watchung, Green Brook and Warren Township.
At the 2010 United States Census, there were 323,444 people, 117,759 households, and 84,669 families residing in the county. The population density was 1,071.7 per square mile (413.8/km).
At the 2000 United States Census, there were 297,490 people, 108,984 households and 78,359 families residing in the county. The population density was 976 per square mile (377/km²). .
Municipalities in Somerset County are below. A CDP is a Census-designated place, as described by the Census Bureau.
Somerset County has numerous roads. , the county had a total of of roadways. were maintained by the towns. were maintained by Somerset County and were by the New Jersey Department of Transportation.
The only two state routes that traverse through are Route 27 (only in Franklin) and Route 28.
U.S. Routes include U.S. Route 22, U.S. Route 202 and U.S. Route 206. The two interstates that pass through are Interstate 78 and Interstate 287.
Route 18 runs at the New Brunswick border of Somerset.
New_Jersey_Transit provides train service. It operates Raritan_Valley_Line.It can go to New York City. PPublic bus transportation is provided by several transit agencies.
NJ Transit provides bus service Midtown Manhattan, as well as service to major cities in New Jersey and within Somerset County. 

</doc>
<doc id="540958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540958" title="Bedminster, New Jersey">
Bedminster, New Jersey

Bedminster is a township in Somerset County, New Jersey, United States. The township's population was 8,165, according to the 2010 United States Census.
Bedminster was the corporate headquarters of AT&T Corporation, before its merger with SBC Communications (the combined company is now known as AT&T Inc.).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the township had a total area of 26.301 square miles (68.119 km), including 26.080 square miles (67.547 km) of land and 0.221 square miles (0.573 km) of water (0.84%).
As of the 2000 United States Census, there were 8,302 people, 4,235 households, and 2,100 families residing in the township. The population density was 313.6 people per square mile (121.1/km²). 
Trump National Golf Course - owned by Donald Trump, the course features 36 holes designed by Tom Fazio, with fees to join of $350,000.
Bedminster Township has a township government. The five-member Township Committee is elected by the voters serve three-year terms of office. At an annual reorganization meeting held during the first week of January, the Township Committee selects one of its members to serve as mayor.
As of March 23, 2011, there were a total of 6,183 registered voters in Bedminster Township
The Bedminster Township School District serves students in pre-Kindergarten through eighth grade at Bedminster Township Public School. As of the 2011-12 school year, the district's one school had an enrollment of 582 students and 56.8 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 10.25:1.
Public school students in ninth through twelfth grades attend Bernards High School. It is part of a sending/receiving relationship with the Somerset Hills Regional School District. It is a K - 12 district that serves students from Bernardsville, Far Hills and Peapack-Gladstone.
, the township had a total of of roadways. are maintained by the municipality, by Somerset County and by the New Jersey Department of Transportation.
Bedminster has Interstate 287 that which runs through the eastern section, while Interstate 78 runs mostly through the center of the township. U.S. Route 202 and U.S. Route 206 also pass through running parallel to I-287 from the Bridgewater area to Pluckemin.
Major county roads that pass through include CR 512 and CR 523.
The closest New Jersey Transit service offered is at the Far Hills station on the Morris & Essex Lines.
Somserset County operates bus service along Route 206.
People who were born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with Bedminster Township include:

</doc>
<doc id="540960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540960" title="University of Worcester">
University of Worcester

The University of Worcester is a university, in Worcester, England. It started in 1946.
In 1946, it started as a teaching college. It was on unused bases for the Royal Air Force. In 1997 the Privy Council renamed it iversity College Worcester. In 2005, the Privy Council let it become a university. The institution was renamed "University of Worcester" in September of that year.
Since 2005, the University has got many new sites in the city of Worcester.
St John's is the main campus. It is the central place for all courses, support departments and academic institutes. it does have any places that does business, computing, marketing or management.
The university's second campus is known as City Campus. The Worcester Business School is here.
In addition, the University occupies a large site adjacent to the River Severn, now known as "Riverside". This includes an Art Space & Exhibition building and a 2,000-seat capacity Sports Arena built as a new facility for sports, events, a base for the Worcester Wolves basketball team, a national centre of excellence for disability sports and as a further teaching and office space. The facility, known as Worcester Arena is also accessible to the local community. 
The Hive was opened in July 2012. It has a bunch of services for adults, children and adamic sections. It has 250,000 books, and huge archive collections. It also has meeting rooms, exhibition spaces and a studio theatre.
The institution has been awarded the Carbon Trust Standard. The university has been recgonized for efficiency.
The University of Worcester is the UK's fastest growing University. Applications increased by 10.6% in 2009 and by 100% since 2004. The University has consistently recorded the largest increases in applications of any UK University for 7 years in a row.
As of April 2011, the University of Worcester has proposed to set its undergraduate Tuition Fees at £8,100 under the new regime announced by the Coalition Government.
The university guide of the Times newspaper rates the university at place 81 out of 114 institutions.
In the National Student Survey students from the University rated their overall satisfaction at 80% in 2008/09. A number of subject areas received excellent levels of satisfaction, with an overall student satisfaction of 92% in Sports Science and 89% in Initial Teacher Training.
In March 2010, the University was ranked 54th of the top public sector places to work.
The Complete University Guide 2015 says it the University is 104th out of 123 institutions.
In August 2010, the University was granted Research Degree awarding powers, enabling it to confer the awards of MPhil and PhD. Before this the Coventry University assisted in the academic awarding of these degrees. The university includes eight national research centres:
Worcester Students' Union is the student government organization for students at the University of Worcester. The Union a President, a Vice-President (Education), a Vice-President (Student Activities), and 7 other officers.
The University is home to the Worcester Wolves basketball team.

</doc>
<doc id="540962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540962" title="New Jersey Transit">
New Jersey Transit

New Jersey Transit Corporation, known as NJ Transit (NJT), is a state-owned public transportation system that serves New Jersey. It operates bus, rail, and commuter rail services throughout the state. It connects New York and Philadelphia.
NJT is the largest statewide system for public transporation and the third largest provider of bus, rail.
NJT was founded on July 17, 1979 by the New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT). It was to address many transportation issues.
In 1983, NJT assumed operation of all commuter rail service in New Jersey from Conrail. It now operates every passenger and commuter rail line in the state except for Amtrak; the Port Authority Trans-Hudson (PATH), which is owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; the PATCO Speedline; two SEPTA Regional Rail lines, the West Trenton Line and the Trenton Line; and a handful of tourist trains in the southern and northwestern parts of New Jersey. Since inception, rail ridership has quadrupled.
During Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, the rail operations center of NJ Transit was flooded by of water.
The Governor of New Jersey appoints a seven-member Board of Directors.
NJT's operations are divided into three classes: bus, rail, and light rail.
NJT operates 871 bus routes using 2,477 buses 
NJT operates three light rail lines:
NJT has 11 commuter rail lines:
The New Jersey Transit Police Department (NJTPD) is the transit police force for NJT. It is a general-powers police agency with statewide jurisdiction with the primary focus on policing the numerous bus depots, rail, and light-rail stations throughout New Jersey. It employs 240 sworn police officers.
Superstorm Sandy, on October 29, 2012, caused a 13-foot tidal surge damaged many coastal communities.. The storm's aftermath left damaged tracks, moved bridge girders, and flooded rail stations. NJT has proposed the construction of a new generator in the Kearny Meadows that would be flood-proof. and support an electrical "micro-grid" that would be exclusively for train service.
Bus rapid transit in New Jersey is plentiful
NJT is planning to extend the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail to Englewood or Tenafly .
The Glassboro–Camden Line is a diesel multiple unit (DMU) light rail system planned for southwestern part of New Jersey in the United States. At its northern end in Camden it will connect with the River LINE with which its infrastructure and vehicles will be compatible. At the northern terminus, the Walter Rand Transportation Center, paid transfers will be possible to the PATCO Speedline.
 relarticle mainpage">The West Trenton Line is a proposed service connecting Trenton to Newark. NJT's estimate of the cost was $197 million. To date, no money has been given.
The Passaic-Bergen Passenger Rail Project would reintroduce passenger service on the New York, Susquehanna and Western Railway right-of-way between Hawthorne and Hackensack using new Diesel Multiple Unit rail cars.
The Monmouth-Ocean-Middlesex line is a proposed south and central New Jersey commuter rail route to New Brunswick, Newark and New York's Penn Station. This would restore service previously provided by the Central Railroad of New Jersey. It would run on a 40.1-mile rail train line. It would providec service from Monmouth Junction (South Brunswick) to Lakehurst .
From Monmouth Junction the line would continue southeast to Jamesburg, Monroe, Englishtown, Manalapan, Freehold Borough, Freehold Township, Howell and Farmingdale. Passengers for New York would transfer at Newark. Eight new stations and a train storage yard would be constructed.
In August 2010, NJT received $534,375 in Federal Funds to see if there are possibilities of a MOM line. Since that time there has been no further advancement of the project. 
In November 2008, the Lehigh Valley Economic Development Corporation started a study to explore making the Raritan Valley Line to the Lehigh_Valley region of eastern Pennsylvania. It could lead to stops in Allentown, Bethlehem and Easton. These cities were last served in 1967.
It was planned to connect the Downtown portion of Newark with Elizabeth via Newark Liberty International Airpor. NJT is no longer pursuing the Newark-Elizabeth Rail Link.

</doc>
<doc id="540970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540970" title="Krishna River">
Krishna River

The Krishna River is the fifth longest river in India. It is long. It is the second longest river in South India. The river is the major source of irrigation in the states of Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
The tributaries of this river include Bhima, Tungabhadra, Veena, Koyna, Panchganga, Munneru, and Musi.

</doc>
<doc id="540978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540978" title="Category:Shakur family">
Category:Shakur family


</doc>
<doc id="540984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540984" title="Category:Sockpuppets of BlackGator">
Category:Sockpuppets of BlackGator


</doc>
<doc id="540985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540985" title="Category:Suspected sockpuppets of BlackGator">
Category:Suspected sockpuppets of BlackGator


</doc>
<doc id="540999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540999" title="Category:1968 establishments in Africa">
Category:1968 establishments in Africa


</doc>
<doc id="541007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541007" title="Category:1960s establishments in Africa">
Category:1960s establishments in Africa


</doc>
<doc id="541011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541011" title="Martin de Porres">
Martin de Porres

Saint Martin de Porres (December 9, 1579 – November 3, 1639) is a Christian Saint of Dominican Order. He is the patron saint of social justice. He is also the patron saint of race relations, African-Americans, barbers and hairdressers. He was born in Lima, Peru where he is venerated in the large basilica of Santo Domingo. On his feast day, November 3rd, many churches have a ceremony. 
Saint Martin was born to Juan de Porras, a Spanish hidalgo, and Ana Velásquez, a black woman . He was originally named Martín de Porres Velázquez.

</doc>
<doc id="541049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541049" title="2016 Fort McMurray wildfire">
2016 Fort McMurray wildfire

The 2016 Fort McMurray wildfire is a natural disaster that is affecting Alberta, Canada. The wildfire damaged or destroyed 1,600 structures in early May 2016. Almost 90,000 people evacuated (left) the area as the wildfire spread through the community of Fort McMurray.
A local state of emergency was put in effect on Sunday, May 1, 2016 at 9:57 pm. Several areas were put under a mandatory evacuation. More than 90,000 people people left the area. Fort McMurray was expecting high winds in addition to the wildfire.

</doc>
<doc id="541057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541057" title="Episode">
Episode

An episode is a singular part of a story, radio or television program, they often follow in an order. They are often 20- 40 minutes long, and follow the same storyline.
"Episode" comes from the Greek word "epeisodion" which refers to the spoken words between two songs in a Greek tragedy. The word was first used in English in 1773 to mean an "outstanding incident, experience." By the 1930s, the word was used to refer to each broadcast of a radio program that was part of a series.

</doc>
<doc id="541061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541061" title="Abu Hider">
Abu Hider

Abu Hider () is a Bangladeshi First class and List A cricketer. He is a Left-arm fast-medium Bowler and a Right-hand batsman.Abu Hider made his Twenty20 International debut against Zimbabwe on 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="541066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541066" title="Ángel de Andrés López">
Ángel de Andrés López

Ángel de Andrés López (23 October 1951 – 4 May 2016) was a Spanish actor. He appeared in more than 60 movies and television shows between 1977 and 2015. He was known for his roles as Antonio in "What Have I Done to Deserve This?" (1984) and as Cheyenne in "800 Bullets (2002).
On 4 May 2016, Andrés López died at his home in Miraflores de la Sierra, Madrid, Spain from a heart attack, aged 64.

</doc>
<doc id="541068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541068" title="Abel Fernandez">
Abel Fernandez

Abel Gonzalez Fernandez (July 14, 1930 – May 3, 2016) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Federal Agent William "Bill" Youngfellow on the 1959 – 1963 ABC Television series "The Untouchables".
Fernandez died on May 3, 2016 from lung cancer at a hospital in Whittier, California, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="541069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541069" title="Valdete Idrizi">
Valdete Idrizi

Valdete Idrizi is the director of an NGO in Mitrovica that helps young people, women, and displaced people. In 2008 she received an International Women of Courage Award. 
Idrizi was born in Mitrovica, a city in Kosovo. She went to the University of Pristina in Mitrovica.

</doc>
<doc id="541071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541071" title="Patrick Ekeng">
Patrick Ekeng

Patrick Claude Ekeng Ekeng (26 March 1990 – 6 May 2016) was a Cameroonian professional footballer. He played as a defensive midfielder. He had two international caps for his country's national team. He represented Cameroon at the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.
Ekeng collapsed on 6 May 2016 during a soccer game in Bucharest, Romania. He was rushed to the hospital after suffering from a heart attack. Ekeng died hours later at the age of 26.

</doc>
<doc id="541074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541074" title="WWE Fastlane">
WWE Fastlane

WWE Fastlane is a professional wrestling event produced annually by WWE. It is broadcast live and is also available through pay-per-view (PPV) and WWE Network. The event started in 2015 to replace Elimination Chamber in the February time slot of WWE's pay-per-view calendar. The name of the event is a reference to its position on the "Road to WrestleMania".

</doc>
<doc id="541076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541076" title="Siné">
Siné

Maurice Sinet (31 December 1928 – 5 May 2016), known as Siné, was a French political cartoonist. His work was known for its anti-capitalism, anti-clericalism, anti-colonialism, antisemitism and anarchism. He worked for "L'Express" and "Charlie Hebdo". 
Siné died from lung surgical complications after suffering from lung cancer at a hospital in Paris on 5 May 2016, aged 87.

</doc>
<doc id="541080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541080" title="Margot Honecker">
Margot Honecker

Margot Honecker (née Feist; 17 April 1927 – 6 May 2016) was an East German politician. She was a member of the East German communist party and the East German regime until 1989. She was born in Halle, Saxony-Anhalt.
From 1963 through 1989, she was "Minister of People's Education" ("Ministerin für Volksbildung") of the GDR. She was married to Erich Honecker, the dictator of East Germany (1971 – 1989) from 1953 until his death of liver cancer in 1994. She and her husband were exiled in Chile during the 1990s. 
Honecker died at her home while in exile in Santiago, Chile on 6 May 2016, aged 89.

</doc>
<doc id="541084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541084" title="TACV">
TACV

TACV is the flag carrier of Cape Verde in Africa. It was founded in 1958. The government of Cape Verde owns 100% of TACV. Sal International Airport is TACV's largest hub. Praia International Airport and Cesária Évora Airport, both in Cape Verde, are also hubs for the airline. TACV currently goes to several cities accross Cape Verde, the United States, Brazil, Africa and Europe. 

</doc>
<doc id="541085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541085" title="David Hall (American politician)">
David Hall (American politician)

David Hall (October 20, 1930 – May 6, 2016) was an American Democratic politician. He served as the 20th Governor of Oklahoma from January 11, 1971 to January 13, 1975. 
After leaving office, Hall was convicted of bribery and extortion. He became the first Oklahoma governor to be convicted of criminal acts committed during his tenure. He served 19 months of a three-year sentence at the Federal Correctional Institution, Tucson.
Hall died of a stroke in San Diego, California on May 6, 2016, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="541087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541087" title="Henryk Samsonowicz">
Henryk Samsonowicz

Henryk Bohdan Samsonowicz (born January 23, 1930 in Warsaw) is a Polish historian. He is known for his knowledge in medieval Poland. He is also a writer, and professor of the University of Warsaw. From 1989 through 1990, he was the minister of education in the government of prime minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki.

</doc>
<doc id="541089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541089" title="Tim Matheson">
Tim Matheson

Tim Matheson (born Timothy Lewis Matthieson; December 31, 1947) is an American actor and television director and producer. He is best known for his roles as Eric "Otter" Stratton in the comedy movie "National Lampoon's Animal House" (1978) and of Vice President John Hoynes in the NBC drama "The West Wing". He was also the voice of Johnny Quest in the animated series "Jonny Quest".

</doc>
<doc id="541091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541091" title="Kevin Conroy">
Kevin Conroy

Kevin Conroy (born November 30, 1955) is an American stage, movie and voice actor. He is best known for his voice role as the DC Comics character Batman on the 1990s Warner Bros. television show ", 
Many people liked his performance as Batman that Conroy went on to voice the character for multiple movies under the DC Universe Animated Original Movies banner; along with the famous video games ' (2009), ' (2011) and " (2015).

</doc>
<doc id="541092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541092" title="Hannes Bauer">
Hannes Bauer

Johannes "Hannes" Bauer (July 22, 1954 – May 6, 2016) was a German trombonist. He worked in the field of improvised music and free jazz. He was the brother of the trombonist Conny Bauer. His career began in 1979. During his career he has worked with Thomas Lehn, Jon Rose, Ken Vandermark "Territory Band" and the Peter Brötzmann Tentet. He was born in Halle, Saxony-Anhalt.
Baur died in Berlin, Germany on May 6, 2016, aged 61.

</doc>
<doc id="541094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541094" title="Valeriy Zuyev">
Valeriy Zuyev

Valeriy Zuyev (November 5, 1952 – 6 May 2016) was a retired Soviet-born Ukrainian football player and coach. He was born in Kiev. Zuyev played his only game for USSR in 1975 in a UEFA Euro 1976 qualifier against Turkey.
Zuyev died after long illness in Kiev on 6 May 2016, aged 63.

</doc>
<doc id="541095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541095" title="Margaret Woodrow Wilson">
Margaret Woodrow Wilson

Margaret Woodrow Wilson (April 16, 1886 – February 12, 1944) was the eldest daughter of US President Woodrow Wilson and Ellen Louise Axson. 
Her two sisters were Jessie and Eleanor. After her mother's death in 1914, Margaret served her father as the White House social hostess, the title later known as First Lady. Her father remarried in 1915.
Wilson died in India from uremia (blood poisoning), aged 57.

</doc>
<doc id="541096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541096" title="Nell Arthur">
Nell Arthur

Ellen Lewis "Nell" Herndon Arthur (August 30, 1837 – January 12, 1880) was the wife of the 21st President of the United States, Chester A. Arthur. She died before he took office as President. She was born in Virginia. 
In January 1880, Nell Arthur came down with a cold. She quickly developed pneumonia. She died two days later on January 12, 1880 in Albany, New York at age 42.

</doc>
<doc id="541097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541097" title="Hannah Van Buren">
Hannah Van Buren

Hannah Hoes Van Buren (born Hoes; March 8, 1783 – February 5, 1819) was the wife of the eighth President of the United States, Martin Van Buren. She died in 1819, before Martin Van Buren became President. He never remarried and was one of the few Presidents to be unmarried while in office.
During his term, his daughter-in-law, Angelica, performed the role of hostess of the White House and First Lady of the United States.
Van Buren died of tuberculosis.

</doc>
<doc id="541098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541098" title="Óscar Marcelino Álvarez">
Óscar Marcelino Álvarez

Óscar Marcelino Álvarez (25 May 1948 – 28 April 2016) was an Argentine former professional football player. He played in Argentina for Banfield and Newell's Old Boys between 1968 and 1970 before reappearing in Greece. In 1980 he was transferred to Atromitos where he played until his retirement in 1981.
Álvarez died on 28 April 2016 in Athens, Greece at the age of 67.

</doc>
<doc id="541099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541099" title="Jok Church">
Jok Church

Jok Richard Church (November 28, 1949 – April 29, 2016) was an American cartoonist. He was born in Akron, Ohio. He created the Universal Press Syndicate comic strip "You Can With Beakman and Jax" which was later made into the TV series "Beakman's World".
Church died of a heart attack in San Francisco, California on April 29, 2016, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="541100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541100" title="Mark DeSaulnier">
Mark DeSaulnier

Mark James DeSaulnier (born March 31, 1952) is an American politician. He is a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives. He has served California's 11th Congressional District since 2015.
In 2015, DeSaulnier was diagnosed with leukemia. In May 2016, it was announced the leukemia was incurable and that DeSaulnier would still seek re-election in 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="541110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541110" title="Category:Pages needing to be simplified from May 2016">
Category:Pages needing to be simplified from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541111" title="Category:Clean up categories from May 2016">
Category:Clean up categories from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541112" title="Category:Articles to be expanded from May 2016">
Category:Articles to be expanded from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541113" title="Category:Unreferenced BLPs from May 2016">
Category:Unreferenced BLPs from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541114" title="Category:Articles that need to be wikified from May 2016">
Category:Articles that need to be wikified from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541118" title="Category:People from Lucca">
Category:People from Lucca


</doc>
<doc id="541119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541119" title="Category:Lucca">
Category:Lucca


</doc>
<doc id="541120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541120" title="Category:Blind people">
Category:Blind people


</doc>
<doc id="541121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541121" title="Category:Musicians from Tuscany">
Category:Musicians from Tuscany


</doc>
<doc id="541122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541122" title="Category:Italian musicians by location">
Category:Italian musicians by location


</doc>
<doc id="541148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541148" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Computer Store Man">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Computer Store Man


</doc>
<doc id="541150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541150" title="Bernards High School">
Bernards High School

Bernards High School is a four-year high school in Somerset County, New Jersey, United States. It serves grades 1-12 and kindergarten. It has students from Bernardsville, Far Hills and Peapack-Gladstone. Students from Bedminster are sent to the district's high school for grades 9-12. The school is in Bernardsville.
In 2012-13 school year, the school had 785 students and 60.7 classroom teachers.
In its 2013 report on "America's Best High Schools", "The Daily Beast" said the school as 235th best in the nation .
In the 2011 "Ranking America's High Schools" issue by "The Washington Post", the school was at 6th in New Jersey and 288th nationwide.
Bernards High School competes in the Skyland Conference. it is under the watch of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA).
From February of 2002 until the end of the 2008-2009 school year, the school offered students the to take part in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IB). It is a comprehensive two-year curriculum taken by a few junior and senior students. Advanced Placement (AP) courses are still offered, which may also lead to college credit.
Core members of the school's administration are:

</doc>
<doc id="541166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541166" title="Hogshead">
Hogshead

A hogshead is a measurement unit in the imperial system. It was derived in the 14th century by weighing King Henry IV's hog's head. The measure was used throughout Europe but the length varied from country to country, even city to city. The hogshead was popularized in modern pop culture by Episode 208 of "The Simpsons". There are 2.7 hogshead to a standard gallon.
In 1959, the length was standardized by Canada, New Zealand, United Kindgom, and the United States in the international treaty "Standardization of Units".

</doc>
<doc id="541180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541180" title="Favoriten">
Favoriten

Favoriten is the 10th district of Vienna, Austria.
Favoriten is bordered by the districts Meidling to the west and Simmering to the east. Liesing is to the southwest. Margareten and Wieden are to the north.

</doc>
<doc id="541187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541187" title="Radio astronomy">
Radio astronomy

Radio astronomy is astronomy which studies celestial objects at radio frequencies. 
The first detection of radio waves from an astronomical object was made in the 1930s. Karl Jansky found radiation coming from the Milky Way. Later, other sources of radio emission were found. These include stars and galaxies, as well as entirely new classes of objects, such as radio galaxies, quasars, pulsars, and masers. 
The discovery of the cosmic microwave background radiation, evidence for the Big Bang theory, was made through radio astronomy.
Radio astronomy is done using large radio antennas. These are called radio telescopes. They are used alone, or with multiple linked telescopes. The use of interferometry allows radio astronomy to achieve high angular resolution. The resolving power of an interferometer is set by the distance between its components, not the size of its components.

</doc>
<doc id="541199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541199" title="Pesse canoe">
Pesse canoe

The Pesse canoe is probably the world's oldest known boat. Carbon dating shows that the boat was made during the early mesolithic period between 8040 BCE and 7510 BCE. Right now the canoe is in the Drents Museum in Assen, Netherlands.
The boat is a dugout style canoe measuring long and wide. It was made from a single log of Scots pine wood. scratches are found on the walls of the canoe, these were probably made by flint or antler tools.
The boat was found in 1955 during the creation of the Dutch A28 motorway. The motorway is south of the village of Pesse in Hoogeveen. To make the base of the motorway, the peat was removed, during this construction a crane operator found what he believed to be a tree trunk underground. Local farmer Hendrik Wanders saw the log and took it for observation. He gave the canoe to the University of Groningen, where it was examined and freeze dried to stop decay. It was later taken to the Drents Museum, near the discovery site.
Many have wondered if the Pesse Canoe was actually a boat. Some Danish Historians questioned if a boat so small could sail. In 2011, a similar canoe was constructed by Archaeologist Jaap Beuker and successfully paddled by a canoeist. Others thought that the canoe could be something else, believing it was used as an animal feeder. Beuker argued that animals were not kept by the people from the era the boat was made, so it could not have been an animal feeder. The boat is also like other prehistoric canoes.

</doc>
<doc id="541208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541208" title="Category:2000s in Asia">
Category:2000s in Asia


</doc>
<doc id="541221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541221" title="Nicolas Noxon">
Nicolas Noxon

Nicolas Lane Noxon (July 29, 1936 – May 3, 2016) was an American documentary filmmaker. He worked in television programs about history, science and the natural world. Noxon produced television specials and series with ABC, David Wolper, Columbia Pictures Television, Metromedia, MGM, Survival Anglia, Time-Life and National Geographic Television. He was born in London, England to American parents. He was known for producing the documentary "Secrets of the Titanic".
Noxon died of pancreatic cancer on May 3, 2016 in Westlake Village, California, aged 79.

</doc>
<doc id="541222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541222" title="Bernardo Ribeiro">
Bernardo Ribeiro

Bernardo Salim Ribeiro (9 October 1989 – 7 May 2016) was a Brazilian footballer. He played as an attacking midfielder. On February 2011, he completed move to Skënderbeu Korçë. He officially became part of the club in July 2011. InAugust 2012 he signed for A-League club Newcastle Jets.
On 8 May 2016, Ribeiro died of a heart attack during a match in Brazil, aged 26.

</doc>
<doc id="541224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541224" title="Alan K. Simpson">
Alan K. Simpson

Alan Kooi Simpson (born September 2, 1931) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. He served from 1979 to 1997 as a United States Senator from Wyoming. His dad, Milward L. Simpson, was also a senator (1962–1967), and served as a Wyoming governor (1955–1959).
In 2010, Simpson was appointed by President Obama to co-chair the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform with Democrat co-chair Erskine Bowles of North Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="541225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541225" title="Moscow International Business Center">
Moscow International Business Center


</doc>
<doc id="541226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541226" title="Karl W. Butzer">
Karl W. Butzer

Karl W. Butzer (August 19, 1934 – May 4, 2016) was an German-born American geographer, cultural ecologist and environmental archaeologist. 
Butzer was born in Mülheim, Germany. He was born studied at McGill University and at the University of Bonn.
From 1959 through 1966, he taught at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He taught at the University of Chicago until 1984. After that, he went to University of Texas at Austin. 
Butzer died on May 4, 2016 in Austin, Texas at the age of 81.

</doc>
<doc id="541227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541227" title="One (U2 song)">
One (U2 song)

"One" is a rock ballad from the Irish rock group U2. The song is about breakups and wanting to stay together. It is the third song from their studio album "Achtung Baby". It was released in March 1992 as the album's third single.
"One" was released as a charity benefit single. Profits from the song went to AIDS research. The song reached the top of the Irish Singles Charts, the U.S. "Billboard" Album Rock Tracks and Modern Rock Tracks. The song hit #10 on the "Billboard" Hot 100.
The song has been redone by many artists, like Adam Lambert, Damien Rice and Johnny Cash.

</doc>
<doc id="541228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541228" title="Romalı Perihan">
Romalı Perihan

Perihan Özkurt (born Perihan Benli; 18 March 1942 – 5 May 2016), best known as Romalı Perihan, formerly "Perihan, Princess of Esfandiari-Bakhtiari", was an internationally known Turkish soprano, socialite, painter, model, columnist, and actress. She married to the late Iranian nobleman Bijan, Prince of Esfandiari-Bakhtiari in Italy. She is mainly known for her role in "La Dolce Vita".
Perihan died in Istanbul from a heart attack on 5 May 2016, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="541231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541231" title="Candye Kane">
Candye Kane

Candye Kane, born Candace Hogan (November 13, 1961 – May 6, 2016), was an American singer-songwriter. She was best known in the blues and jazz genre. She was included in the books "Rolling Stone Guide to Jazz and Blues," "Elwood's Blues" by Dan Aykroyd. She also had a career as a pornographic actress during porn's golden age. She was born in Ventura, California. In 2014, Kane was nominated for a Blues Music Award in the 'Contemporary Blues Female Artist of the Year' category.
Kane was a bisexual. In 2008, she was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Kane died from the disease at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles on May 6, 2016, aged 54.

</doc>
<doc id="541233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541233" title="Isao Tomita">
Isao Tomita

, often known simply as Tomita, was a Japanese music composer. He was born in Tokyo. He is called as one of the pioneers of electronic music and space music. He is one of the most famous producers of analog synthesizer arrangements. Many of his albums are electronic versions and adaptations of famous classical music pieces and he received four Grammy Award nominations for his 1974 album "Snowflakes Are Dancing".
Isao died of heart failure in Tokyo on 5 May 2016, aged 84.

</doc>
<doc id="541239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541239" title="Chris Mitchell">
Chris Mitchell

Christopher Philip Mitchell (21 July 1988 – 6 May 2016) was a Scottish professional footballer. Mitchell played for Falkirk, Ayr United, Bradford City, Queen of the South and Clyde. He was born in Stirling, Scotland. Mitchell won seven caps for the Scotland national under-21 football team.
Mitchell died on 6 May 2016, aged 27.

</doc>
<doc id="541241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541241" title="The Jungle Book (2016 movie)">
The Jungle Book (2016 movie)

The Jungle Book is a 2016 American fantasy adventure movie directed by Jon Favreau, written by Justin Marks and produced by Walt Disney Pictures. It is based on Rudyard Kipling's "The Jungle Book" and inspired by Walt Disney's 1967 animated movie of the same name.
It stars Neel Sethi as Mowgli with the voices of Bill Murray, Ben Kingsley, Idris Elba, Lupita Nyong'o, Scarlett Johansson, Giancarlo Esposito and Christopher Walken with Garry Shandling.
Favreau, Marks and producer Brigham Taylor developed the movie's story with a mixture between Disney's animated version and Kipling's original books. Filming began in 2014, with filming taking place in Los Angeles. 
"The Jungle Book" was released to very positive reviews in North America on April 15, 2016. It has a 95% on Rotten Tomatoes.

</doc>
<doc id="541251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541251" title="United States presidential election, 2020">
United States presidential election, 2020

The United States presidential election of 2020 will be held on November 3, 2020. Voters will either re-elect the 45th President of the United States or elect the 46th present. The series of presidential primary elections and caucuses are likely to be held during the first six months of 2020. Donald Trump won in 2016, he said they will run re-election in 2020.
The 2020 U.S. presidential election will be the first time all members of the millennial generation will be able to vote. The age group of what will then be persons in the 18 to 45-year-old area will represent 40 percent of the United States' eligible voters in 2020. It has also been estimated that 15 percent of eligible voters in the 2020 U.S. presidential election will be Hispanic.
Candidates in this section have never held public office and have not been featured in at least five national primary polls.
Should Donald Trump not seek a second term or face primary opposition, the following have been mentioned as potential candidates:
Candidates in this section have never held public office and have not been featured in at least five national primary polls.

</doc>
<doc id="541252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541252" title="Cory Booker">
Cory Booker

Cory Anthony Booker (born April 27, 1969) is an American politician. He is the junior United States Senator from New Jersey. He has been in office since 2013. Before being senator, he served as mayor of Newark from 2006 to 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="541255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541255" title="Justin Amash">
Justin Amash

Justin A. Amash (; born April 18, 1980) is an American attorney. He is a Republican member of Congress. In January 2011, he began serving as the U.S. Representative for . 
Amash has said he would considering running for president in the future possibly in the 2020 presidential election.

</doc>
<doc id="541260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541260" title="Icelandic króna">
Icelandic króna

The Icelandic króna (ISK; plural krónur; "króna" means "crown") is the currency used in Iceland. The name "Icelandic crown" is sometimes used instead.
There are currently only 4 banknotes (500, 1000, 2000, 5000 and 10000 króna) and 5 coins (1, 5, 10, 50 and 100 króna) in circulation.
The Danish krone was introduced to Iceland in 1874. It replaced the earlier Danish currency, the rigsdaler. Iceland began making its own currency in 1885. The Danish krone left Iceland after the collapse of the Scandinavian Monetary Union. Iceland gained it's independence over Denmark in 1918, and the first coins were issued in 1922.
Iceland experienced hyperinflation in 1981. So the currency was revalued. This meant that the 100 old krónur (ISJ) became as valuable as 1 new króna (ISK). The new 500 krónur banknote was also put into circulation the same year. The largest banknote ever issued was a 10,000 krónur. This bill was made after the 2008–11 Icelandic financial crisis.
In 2009, the Althing voted to join the European Union. After the left-wing parties were voted out of office, the negotiation were stopped. Nowadays, most people predict that the króna will remain the Icelandic currency for a long time.
A major financial crisis hit Iceland from 2008 to 2011. It brought about a collapse of the Icelandic banking sector. The value of the Icelandic króna dropped, and it went down to around 185 ISK per 1 euro. After many of the issues were resolved, the krónur value went up to around 140 ISK per 1 euro. However, the value hasn't been as high as it was since before the crisis (it was at 82 ISK per 1 euro in mid-2007).

</doc>
<doc id="541264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541264" title="Independence Party (Iceland)">
Independence Party (Iceland)

The Independence Party (Icelandic: "Sjálfstæðisflokkurinn") is a centre-right political party in Iceland. They are liberal conservatives who are eurosceptic (meaning they don't want Iceland to join the European Union). The party is the one of the largest in Iceland. It is currently tied with the most seats in the Althing. The chairman of the party is Bjarni Benediktsson and vice chairman is Ólöf Nordal.
The party was formed in 1929 as a result of two parties merging. The newly formed party wanted Iceland to be independent. This was later achieved in 1944. From 1929 to 2009, the Independence Party was the dominant party in the Althing.
The party is economically liberal, and is against getting involved with other countries problems. The party is mainly supported by fishermen and high-earners, particularly in Reykjavík. The party also wants Iceland to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

</doc>
<doc id="541279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541279" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Ey mum">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Ey mum


</doc>
<doc id="541285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541285" title="Category:Channel 4 comedy">
Category:Channel 4 comedy


</doc>
<doc id="541341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541341" title="Rare-earth magnet">
Rare-earth magnet

Rare-earth magnets are strong permanent magnets made from alloys of rare earth elements. 
Developed in the 1970s and '80s, rare-earth magnets are the strongest type of permanent magnets made. They have much stronger magnetic fields than other types such as ferrite or alnico magnets. 
There are two types: neodymium magnets and samarium-cobalt magnets. Some rare-earth magnets such as Terfenol-D are magnetostrictive. They also have uses e.g. in speakers. 
Rare earth magnets are extremely brittle and also vulnerable to corrosion, so they are usually plated or coated to protect them from breaking, chipping, or crumbling into powder.

</doc>
<doc id="541351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541351" title="Category:Works about divorce">
Category:Works about divorce


</doc>
<doc id="541360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541360" title="Yahrzeit">
Yahrzeit

Yahrzeit (Yiddish, from German, "yahr," year, plus "zeit," time) in Judaism is the yearly observance of the death of a close family member. There are a number of common customs for Jews observing a yahrzeit. These include remembering the relative, lighting memorial candles, saying special prayers, giving money to charity, and visiting the grave of the relative. 
The date of the yahrzeit is fixed by the Hebrew calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="541361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541361" title="Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 49">
Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Current issues and requests archive 49

I wonder if any person can shed some light on this old case? The master account was blocked in February 2011 for abusing several accounts, but the socks which are tagged locally all show creation dates of "after" the local block date. So where is the abuse of accounts?     09:01, 15 April 2016 (UTC)
...as it is one of the most common targets for vandalism - I'm shocked that this isn't protected - it's been like this on ENWIKI for years. () 01:25, 17 April 2016 (UTC)
They have inserted confusing URL such as //wikipediatravel.weebly.com or //wikipedia-travel.blogspot.com/ to multiple articles.
-- () 05:55, 14 April 2016 (UTC)
Persistent...
-- () 08:46, 20 April 2016 (UTC)
Hello, fellow admins. There are a couple of RfDs that were scheduled to close on April 13. They both have all "delete" comments. I can't close them because I initiated them. If any of you are holding off on closing them because they are going to be more work than usual to process (because they're group requests and they're for templates), then I would be glad to do the deleting and cleanup. If you'd like to close them and have me do that, just let me know when they're closed. Thanks. -- () 23:55, 17 April 2016 (UTC)
User Yeehawmothertruckers was indef'd by because of the name's similarity to a vulgar English phrase. I think it's allowable. It's a phrase that could be used as a play on words by someone in the trucking industry. It suggests, but does not say, the vulgarity. What do others think? -- () 19:38, 23 April 2016 (UTC)
Thanks, guys, but I put this on the Admins noticeboard because I wanted admin input. I'll wait to see what other admins respond. -- () 22:44, 23 April 2016 (UTC)
 While I still think the benefit of the doubt should be applied here, cases such as this one are instances where our username policy will apply: 
At the end of the day, this is about being part of a community of editors. If your username is going to cause offense to others, or even give people pause to consider "that is probably not an acceptable name", then it probably isn't suitable here. Do I think the block is improper? No; while I won't be issuing the block myself, I don't consider it an improper action if someone decides to make the call to block the user. Taking into consideration the possibility of the words used in a non-offensive context (such as in this news article, and apparently in the names of some bands), do I think is a bit too much, and that would be a better choice? Maybe.     14:29, 26 April 2016 (UTC)
. 19:25, 24 April 2016 (UTC)
Can someone block user Godhatesfags12346789 
adding pictures and media to my classes wiki page and having them access it from home?
Please help me with this query --
Come one, come all, to the RfD-closing ball! Now you, too, can have the fun of closing RfDs. There are two antique RfDs awaiting you! Act now, while you have your choice of "Countermand Amendment" or "Unused user language categories and templates" -- or why not live on the edge and close both! There are so many closure options: delete, keep, no consensus to delete, or make up your own -- there's a world of possibilities! Act now before someone else robs you of the fun! -- () 04:35, 6 May 2016 (UTC)
These two IPs have been vandalizing pages related to Sudan and South Sudan with similar content. I have reason to suspect they might be the same user and should be acted upon by an admin promptly. () 22:10, 25 April 2016 (UTC)
IP user has been introducing POV or vandalism edits to Sudan (among others) since the beginning of April. The editor has amassed 15 warnings, two quick deletions, and one 31-hour block to date. Since the block (less than two weeks ago), the editor has accumulated ten additional warnings, and continues to introduce bad changes to these articles. (The latter bad changes have gone unwarned, due to a string of eight "final warnings" that have gone unheeded.) I'm not familiar enough with the politics of Sudan/South Sudan to determine if repeatedly inserting the name of the leaders and former leaders of South Sudan into the article on Sudan -- as their leader -- is a political statement, a POV edit, or if it is pure vandalism, but either way, these changes are not supported by reliable sources, and the project disruption needs to be stopped for the long term.  | |   04:26, 10 May 2016 (UTC)
In moving Brown Bear to Brown bear a mistake was made, and I seem to have lost the content! I'm astonished, and can only hope someone knows how to retrieve it! () 14:37, 10 May 2016 (UTC)
There is a pending request for autopatrol rights. Someone should please check on it. () 06:12, 19 May 2016 (UTC)
There is a discrepancy between the version of that is applied by Twinkle and the version that appears in the template space. Frankly, the actual template is better, but how do we get Twinkle to use the correct version? For an example of what Twinkle applies, see the warning I applied at . The key difference is the words "Thank you for experimenting with..." while the actual template says "Thank you for trying things out..."  | |   00:22, 29 May 2016 (UTC)
 and per regards, () 00:38, 30 May 2016 (UTC)
I sandboxed a copy of Sabbath (disambiguation) a while back, and did a bit of work on it. The result can be found here: . No further work was done on the original source page since the time I copied it to my sandbox, and my revision includes everything that was previously included in the source page. So I think the best way to take this forward would be to merge the history of the original source page into the history of my page, and then let my page replace the original source page. I'll leave the mechanics of that in an administrator's hands. Thanks. () 14:23, 1 June 2016 (UTC)
Twinkle made me notify myself for nominating a QD of my own page. Also, here's the *really* strange part. I nominated about 4 or 5 pages but only got 1 message. This may be a (very minor, but still worth pointing out) problem. :/ () 23:22, 2 June 2016 (UTC)
Please block this habitual vandal, who removes good info and adds nonsense to articles. This person has also created several articles relating to "Atlasia". () 09:06, 3 June 2016 (UTC)
Is the policy in this Wikipedia the same as at en.wikipedia regarding writing an article on yourself? I have evidence that a currently indeffed editor at en.wikipedia has come here and written an article on himself. () 03:43, 7 June 2016 (UTC)
The Pakistan editor's back, editing as . 16:19, 8 June 2016 (UTC)
Fellow admins, I could use your help. We have an editor who has been repeatedly adding a fringe theory to Doctor Who and Master (Doctor Who). The information being added was also tried on enwiki, but was rejected there. You can see the discussion on enwiki . In an effort to satisfy the editor, today I added a paragraph to one article mentioning the theory, but that was also reverted.
If I weren't the person who has been disputing these changes, I would have warned the user and possibly blocked him/her by now. I ask my fellow admins to look at the situation and see what they think. Thanks. -- () 10:51, 10 June 2016 (UTC)
50.51.212.138 and 69.115.75.25 () 01:43, 15 June 2016 (UTC)
I usually do not introduce comments on this page and am timid in doing so now. I really do not like introducing stress to me or to others (as some may already be aware). Nor do I express myself in concise language. However, as one who was personally involved in a negative way by the earlier iteration of this editor, (I considered leaving, but that is due to my personal nature of duck and run for cover); I feel it is a passive-aggressive gesture for this to be placed on the editor's user page: https://simple.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User%3AComputer_Fizz&type=revision&diff=5422018&oldid=5421410. And then say: This remains mockery and wounding to those of us who were active at the time. To me this is now an attack page in disguise. Please forgive my complaint as I like to maintain peace, love and empathy here. Thanks and all the best. 14:09, 16 June 2016 (UTC) \
That article has had the CSD tag for a long time now and I believe it should get deleted. Thanks! -- "()" 21:50, 29 June 2016 (UTC)
Please see this note about a change that may be coming for the "Save page" buttons: , and how simple: can replace this if needed. Thank you, () 21:32, 30 June 2016 (UTC)
Please consider indefinite semi-protection on the page as he is likely to be a vandal target for many years, as on enwiki. Thank you, () 01:18, 2 July 2016 (UTC)
I was looking at Wiki page for Rover P4 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rover_P4
The photo used to describe the P4 Series on this page "1955 Rover 90" is in fact mine, taken in APril 2008. It is attributed to someone called 
Andrew90. I have no ides who this is. I am happy for the photo to be used, but request a change in attribution to:
"Peter Huttemeier, Webmaster Rover Car Club of Australia". The Photos was taken at the National Rove held in Melbourne Australia in April 2008.
Cheers.
Peter Huttemeier
Hello,
In a facebook discussion about Wikipedia, Kayla Hall named me as successor to Salem Media Group. This is false. I have requested that she remove my name, but she has not done so as yet. 
Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Karen Hall 
—Preceding comment added by () 00:35, 17 July 2016 (UTC)
Hello! My bot was blocked indefinitely in 2013 for putting some wrong interwiki. I do not intend to use it in simplewiki but I would like it to be unblocked (since there is no reason to be blocked). Thank you. - () 16:22, 18 July 2016 (UTC)
The article, Nelson Mandela, has been either vandalized or had unneeded or extremely unnecessary content added by unregistered users. If you look at the pages history you can see it just not on unregistered user, but others. This page has had many undos by hard-working admins, so to prevent time consumption, I ask if the Mandela article can have some sort of protection like what the Jimmy Wales, Donald Trump and Simple English Wikipedia articles have. Thanks you. -- () 07:56, 19 July 2016 (UTC)
Can you plz make me a list of the western state and capitals 
I think that is unacceptable because it has "poo" in it and poo is short for Poop. Thanks! () 01:14, 21 July 2016 (UTC)
This page is for people to notify administrators about things or to ask them to do things, things that don't have specific pages for requests, such as . The only things needed here are the requests and the responses to the requests. Please help us keep this page clean by taking discussions to more appropriate pages. Thanks. -- () 07:34, 22 July 2016 (UTC)
Hi there!
, alias , keeps deleting information about plagiarism on the page . This info has references. 
I guess , and of course , but I don't want to start an edit war.
Best regards,
 and are sockpuppets of En wiki user Sarojupreti, and the evidence is here: . IMO they should be globally locked. I have blocked each account protem. The introduction of a known sockpuppet is a violation of our one-strike rule. () 12:24, 27 July 2016 (UTC)
This page keeps being changed to list his birthplace as "Ireland". The only evidence is that the 1911 Census lists his birthplace as Brighton, Sussex, England. Despite this, there is no evidence of a birth certificate. Biographers invariably list Aldershot, Brighton or Country Cork. I have changed the page to reflect this uncertainty; however, editors with a biased POV have changed it previously to list "Ireland".
Please block "I hope Bsadowski1 gets hit by a semi truck" as they are a sock of that same person. () 02:50, 7 August 2016 (UTC)
Please semi-protect the article paintball for a brief period of time. Two IPs and a new (non-auto-confirmed) editor have been arguing about which spam links to add to the article.  | |   13:31, 9 August 2016 (UTC)
One or more IP's have been changing signed comments at . While it is possible that it is simply the (mostly inactive) user making changes while logged out -- indeed, the style of the edits looks similar -- it is not clear that this is the case. The user is auto-confirmed, so semi-protection of the talk page will not unduly impact the user, while providing protection against changes made to signed comments by one or more anonymous IP users.  | |   14:02, 14 August 2016 (UTC)
Just read your info on this and the references to the official opposition leader in both the 38th and 39th parliaments are incorrect. I was the opposition leader for a good chunk of the 38th and around 2 years for the 39th. You have listed John Tory in that role. For much of the 38th John Tory was not a member of the legislature and for the 39th he was NEVER a member and hence, COULD not be leader of the opposition. That was my job and hopefully you will consider correcting those references. Thank you.
Bob Runciman
Senator, Ontario, 1000 Islands and Rideau Lakes 
Would an uninvolved admin please close the oldest two RfDs? I can't close them because I initiated them. Thanks. -- () 03:09, 29 August 2016 (UTC)
 — 09:09, 29 August 2016 (UTC)
The articles Playhouse Disney and Kids' CBC have each been deleted numerous times in the past two weeks. In order to further prevent project disruption, I am requesting that the article titles be salted. If someone wants to re-create these articles in a way that meets our policies and guidelines, particularly those related to notability, I think they should be able to do so within userspace, and then request that the title be un-salted to allow a page move. There may be additional similar article titles that should receive similar treatment.  | |   02:21, 30 August 2016 (UTC)
We have a new LTA case. The individual or individuals involved are changing articles about places (Puerto Rico, Italy, Ukraine, so far) using an edit summary similar to "official government update" or variations of this. Many of our active editors have made some reversions to these changes, but wholesale changes to "Puerto Rico" somehow slipped by. These changes significantly changed the legal structure of Puerto Rico, the languages, the demographics, and the history. The editor or editors have used a variety of IPs, especially IPv6 IPs, and at least one registered account, so a simple block may not be enough to stop this abuse. I'm asking that those involved in anti-vandalism work be especially vigilant when checking changes with similar edit summaries, regardless of whether the change was made by an IP or a registered user.  | |   11:10, 6 September 2016 (UTC)
Per , people who have reviewed Hebrew calendar have said that an uninvolved admin could close this as promoted. This was about two weeks ago. Thanks. () 17:25, 9 September 2016 (UTC)
 — 18:02, 16 September 2016 (UTC)
To prevent continued project disruption, I am requesting that the article name "Yuzu" be salted. It has been deleted six times since mid-August.  | |   23:13, 20 September 2016 (UTC)
Hi. Will someone please import and to my userspace (as User:StevenJ81/[name]). I plan to work on these to simplify them for our wiki. Thanks. () 13:28, 29 September 2016 (UTC)
Can someone please delete the empty categories under . Thanks! -- () 16:07, 30 September 2016 (UTC)
Hello, Wikipedia,
With reference to the following Wikipedia link; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Leche_League
I would like to include 'Ireland' in the content of this topic.
My question is: 
How do I add 'Ireland' to the existing content list?
I wish to place 'Ireland', in the content list, after 'Greece'.
Which would mean that 'Ireland', instead of 'Israel', would then be number 4.13 and the succeeding countries would consequently all move up by number.
Once we have 'Ireland' in the content I then wish to add some information on the history of LLL in Ireland.
Any help would be very welcome.
Regards John
One of the nominations at has been open for nearly two months. I am requesting that an uninvolved admin close the discussion. Since several of our most active admins have weighed in on this particular group nomination, it will probably require action from someone who doesn't normally close these discussions. While it is perfectly acceptable for a nomination to be kept open for longer than the usual seven days, this one has been open for quite awhile and it doesn't seem like there is consensus to either keep or delete the templates that are the subject of the nomination. Additionally, it appears that the reason these templates are not being used is related to technical issues that may be resolved in the near future as WikiData matures. If there was consensus on this project for non-admin closure in these cases, I would close it myself, but alas, that is not an option either!  | |   16:00, 4 October 2016 (UTC)
Hi can you protected page Leonardo da Vinci by exciv vandalism () 20:51, 5 October 2016 (UTC)
Regardless of 500 years, what matters is that the page is often vanalized () 21:22, 5 October 2016 (UTC)
 reverted all of my valuable edits to the article Human (my edits made the article more correct and more informative),
and then he manually restored only some of them.
He might have done so by using (and thus abusing) his rollbacking power. I then continued to edit the article. Macdonald-ross then reverted all of my valuable edits to that article yet again, including new contributions that I hadn't made before.
That couldn't be a more clear violation of the policy. I therefore recommend that Macdonald-ross be blocked for a few days, both as a short-term preventative measure against WP:OWN violations during those few days, and as a deterrent against making WP:OWN violations in the future. () 23:40, 5 October 2016 (UTC)
By the way, administrators are chosen by the community, whom they hold to high standards. Other editors should feel free to weigh in on this matter as well, if they wish to. It wouldn't be right to give the impression that administrators are "defending our own" over here.     03:12, 6 October 2016 (UTC)
 is a globally blocked account who repeatedly still returns to multiple Wikipedias as an IP editing from Northern Italy using multiple IPs, but the majority of them resolve to Telecom Italia and Wind and begin with 79, 82, 87, and 151. He is known for creating hoax articles and articles which may be about real people or places, but which make false assertions about them which are completely unsupported by the references. A blatant example is Antonino Natoli of Patti, who is not a recognized saint at all. It was deleted from the Italian Wikipedia and stubbed on the English one. Compare also his article Carlo Biotti with the properly referenced . Nothing he writes can be trusted and he often pastes copyright material verbatim into articles. He is particularly obsessed with creating and editing articles related to the Natoli, Polli, and Biotti families and obscure Italian artists. I strongly suggest you go over all his edits as well as those of the IPs he has used here and his known socks here, e.g.
If I find anymore problematic articles, I'll add them here. () 08:40, 11 September 2016 (UTC)
Can you semi-protected Nelson Mandela for excisv vandalism? () 14:09, 10 October 2016 (UTC)
 — 16:48, 11 October 2016 (UTC)
Just put a bunch of pages in . Most of these look to have been created when the main templates were copied from en and then never touched again. Thinking they can probably be deleted but I wasn't sure if it mattered one way or the other. Thought someone here could take a look and make the call. Thanks! -- () 08:11, 9 October 2016 (UTC)
This article has been vandalized by at least one (maybe more than one) IP recently. May I suggest editing protection to stop vandalism? I only suggest it to be temporary, as it would probably prevent positive contributions as well, which is inconvenient. There is the talk page, but still; 24-72 hours prehaps should be enough? () 11:21, 13 October 2016 (UTC)
A school IP which has been blocked for vandalism in the past, , created Vincent du Vigneaud as this. They then immediately changed it to a nonsensical verbatim copyright violation by copying a movie script about bees . I turned the article into what it should have been about, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist, . My question is, what is your policy on leaving copyvio in the history? Does it need a revision deletion? Note I've also reverted their vandalism to two more articles today and . () 11:47, 18 October 2016 (UTC)
There are several subcategories in that can be deleted. Thanks! -- () 15:43, 20 October 2016 (UTC)
I'm not very good at vandalism stuff. Hoping someone can help with what warnings or actions should happen in this case since it's persistent. What I've found is and so far today. Looks like it may be the same person and might be the same as other 2602: edits from earlier this week. -- () 00:19, 16 October 2016 (UTC)
Some heavy handed blocking and page protections seemed to have worked for the moment. Please watch the Disney articles for any further similar edits, as I am sure this vandal will find another way in.-- () 22:01, 22 October 2016 (UTC)
I've noticed quite a few articles getting indefinite protection lately, and it seems to me that many of them don't really need it. Is it time for another review of everything that's indef'd, and maybe a discussion of when and when not to indef? -- () 16:54, 25 October 2016 (UTC)

</doc>
<doc id="541362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541362" title="Arboys-en-Bugey">
Arboys-en-Bugey

Arboys-en-Bugey is a commune in the Ain department of eastern France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. It was incorporated on 1 Januay 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Arbignieu and Saint-Bois.

</doc>
<doc id="541368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541368" title="Groslée-Saint-Benoît">
Groslée-Saint-Benoît

Groslée-Saint-Benoît is a new commune in the Ain department of eastern France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. The municipality was incorporated on January 1, 2016 and consists of the former communes of Groslée and Saint-Benoît.

</doc>
<doc id="541381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541381" title="Walther Leisler Kiep">
Walther Leisler Kiep

Walther Gottlieb Louis Leisler Kiep (5 January 1926 – 9 May 2016) was a German politician. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). He was a member of the Bundestag between 1965 and 1976 and again from 1980 to 1982. 
After switching to state-level politics, he served as Minister of Economy (1976–77) and Minister of Finance (1976–80) in Lower Saxony under Ernst Albrecht. In 1982, Kiep was the leading candidate for the CDU in two state elections in Hamburg. From 1971 until 1992, he was treasurer of his party at the federal level. 
Kiep died on 9 May 2016 in his home in Kronberg im Taunus in Hesse of pneumonia, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="541382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541382" title="Haut-Valromey">
Haut-Valromey

Haut-Valromey is a new commune in the Ain department of eastern France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. The municipality was incorporated on January 1, 2016 and consists of the former communes of Hotonnes, Le Grand-Abergement, Le Petit-Abergement and Songieu.
It is the largest commune of the Ain department.

</doc>
<doc id="541383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541383" title="Gareth Gwenlan">
Gareth Gwenlan

Gareth Gwenlan OBE (26 April 1937 – 9 May 2016) was a British television producer and director. He was best known for his work on shows including "The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin", "To the Manor Born", "Only Fools and Horses", and "High Hopes". He was born in Brecon, Wales. Gwenlan was made Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2013.
Gwenlan died on 9 May 2016 in Hertfordshire, England, aged 79.

</doc>
<doc id="541384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541384" title="Parves-et-Nattages">
Parves-et-Nattages

Parves-et-Nattages is a new commune in the Ain department of eastern France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. The municipality was incorporated on January 1, 2016 and consists of the former communes of Parves and Nattages.

</doc>
<doc id="541385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541385" title="Henry Silva">
Henry Silva

Henry Silva (born September 15, 1928) is an American movie and television actor. He is known for his roles as Chunjin in "The Manchurian Candidate" (1962) and as the voice of Bane in "".

</doc>
<doc id="541387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541387" title="Rodrigo Duterte">
Rodrigo Duterte

Rodrigo "Rody" Roa Duterte (born March 28, 1945), nicknamed Digong, is a Filipino lawyer and politician who is the current President of the Philippines. Because of the urge of most Filipinos, he announced that he would run as a candidate for President of the Philippines on November 21, 2015. On May 9, 2016, Duterte was elected president. 
He was among the longest-serving mayors in the Philippines. He had previously been a long-time mayor of Davao City from 1988 through 1998, from 2000 through 2010, and from 2013 through 2016. 

</doc>
<doc id="541397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541397" title="Homeowner association">
Homeowner association

A homeowner association (HOA) is an American real estate term. It is a corporation formed by a real estate developer to market, manage, and sell homes and lots in a residential place. 
Later, after a neighborhood is settled, the term may describe a group of home owners which set rules for the neighborhood. The purpose of a home-owners association is to improve the neighborhood's image. The members of a home-owner's association hope that, by improving the image, the values of their homes will rise. If the rules are violated by a home-owner, the home-owners association can force him to pay money. If he refuses, the home-owner's association can take away his house.
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is "common-interest development" (CID), a category that includes various housing types. Since 1964, HOAs have become increasingly common in the United States. HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents by 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="541398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541398" title="Phil LaMarr">
Phil LaMarr

Phillip "Phil" LaMarr (born January 24, 1967) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian and impressionist. He was best known as one of the original cast members on the sketch comedy series "MADtv", and is known for his voice roles in various animated series such as "Justice League", "Justice League Unlimited", "Futurama", "Samurai Jack", "Static Shock", and "Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends".

</doc>
<doc id="541400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541400" title="Category:Sockpuppets of Binbucks">
Category:Sockpuppets of Binbucks


</doc>
<doc id="541401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541401" title="Category:Sockpuppets of GTX1975">
Category:Sockpuppets of GTX1975


</doc>
<doc id="541414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541414" title="Kohl">
Kohl

Kohl is an ancient eye cosmetic, traditionally made by grinding stibnite (SbS). It is widely used in the Middle East, North Africa, and South Asia as eye liner, to contour and/or darken the eyelids, and as mascara for the eyelashes. It is worn mostly by women, but also by some men and children.
Kohl is very ancient, and is seen in depictions of high status women and godesses in Ancient Egypt. It has also been used in India as a cosmetic for a long time. 
The content of kohl and the recipes to prepare it vary greatly. In North Africa and Middle East, homemade kohl is often made by grinding galena (lead sulfide). In the west, soot or organic charcoal may be used instead of lead. Plant oils and the soot from various nuts, seeds, and gum resins are often added to the carbon powder. Unfortunately, the non-lead products do not give such a good result as the the older, traditional varieties. Handmade, lead-based kohl continues to be popular.

</doc>
<doc id="541419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541419" title="Papers, Please">
Papers, Please

Papers, Please is a video game made by Lucas Pope, an indie game developer, published under his secret name 3909. It is about an immigration officer who decided who to let in and who to refuse entry to the fictional country of Arstotzka. The game was released on August 8, 2013 for Microsoft Windows and for OS X. It was released for Linux on February 12, 2014. It was released for iPad on December 12, 2014. A PlayStation Vita version was announced in August 2014, but has not come out yet.
The gameplay for "Papers, Please" revolves around an immigrations inspector's life and job. The player can allow people to enter Arstotzka or refuse them. The player can use different tools to check if the immigration papers are out of date, real or fake. The player must try to keep unwanted people out of Arstotzka, like terrorists, criminals and those with incorrect papers. The player must correctly allow and not allow people in to the country within a set amount of time. Each mistake a player makes is 5 credits off their earned money at the end of the day. The money earned at the end of the day is based on how many people have been correctly finished. The player must pay for the officer's family, food and heating. The player can choose to not pay for any of them, which results in something happening to the family.
The game has 20 possible endings.
Lucas Pope created this game, He used to work for Naughty Dog. After working on the "Uncharted" games, he left to become an indie developer. He started work on it in November 2012, but it took longer then Pope thought, and was finished in nine months. It was put on green light on April 11, 2013 and was greenlit on May 1.
"Papers, Please" has been thanked for its sense of immersion. CBC News' Jonathan Ore called "Papers, Please" a "nerve-racking sleuthing game with relentless pacing and dozens of compelling characters – all from a desk job".
Some critics however reacted badly to the paperwork gameplay. Stephanie Bendixsen from the ABC game review show "Good Game" found the game "tedious", commenting "while I found the issues that arose from the decisions you are forced to make quite interesting, I was just so bored that I just struggled to go from one day to the next. I was torn between wanting to find out more, and just wanting it all to stop."

</doc>
<doc id="541422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541422" title="ProSci Incorporated">
ProSci Incorporated

ProSci Incorporated is an American biotechnology company located in San Diego, California that specializes in research antibody products and custom antibody services and conducts research and development of neutralizing antibodyagainst HIV-1 and other emergent viruses.
ProSci Incorporated was co-founded in 1998 by CEO, Yu Geng, M.D.
ProSci has its own animal facilities since 2010 solely in San Diego. The animal facility is United State Department of Agriculture (USDA) licensed and National Institute of Health (NIH) assured and close to the company headquarter, which ensures the capability and quality of antibody development, custom antibody services and research applications.
ProSci research programs include cancer bio marker discovery and neutralizing antibody development against emergent viruses such as HIV and influenza. ProSci’s innovative approach research using genetically engineered yeast strain and glycoproteins to mimic the HIV-1 glycan coat and develop neutralizing antibodies against HIV-1 glycans has been awarded several Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) grants by NIH. Its research projects have resulted in an invention patent granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and a number of peer-reviewed publications.
ProSci specializes in the production of affinity-purified polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to novel targets in the fields such as apoptosis, HIV, infectious disease, immunology, immune checkpoint, signal transduction, cancer and neurobiology. To date, ProSci has a primary antibody catalog of over 20,000 antibodies. Other catalog items include blocking peptides, recombinant proteins, tissue and cell line slides and lysates.

</doc>
<doc id="541427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541427" title="Category:Indie video games">
Category:Indie video games


</doc>
<doc id="541437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541437" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Episode">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Episode


</doc>
<doc id="541441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541441" title="Brown bear">
Brown bear

The brown bear ("Ursus arctos") is a large bear living in much of northern Eurasia and North America. It is smaller than the polar bear, but is the largest carnivore which lives entirely on the land. 
There are several recognized subspecies.
The brown bear's range has shrunk, but it is still listed as a least concern species by the IUCN. Its total population is about 200,000. As of 2012, this and the American black bear are the only bear species not classified as threatened by the IUCN. However, many of the southern Asian subspecies are highly endangered. The smallest subspecies, the Himalayan brown bear, is critically endangered. It lives in just 2% of its former range, and poachers hunt it for its parts. The Marsican brown bear in central Italy is believed to have a population of just 30 to 40 bears.
The brown bear's main range includes parts of Russia, Central Asia, China, Canada, the United States (mostly Alaska), Scandinavia and the Carpathian region (especially Romania), Anatolia, and Caucasus. The brown bear is a national and state animal in several European countries. It is the most widely distributed of all bears.

</doc>
<doc id="541453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541453" title="Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2016/March/Done">
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Rollback/Archives/2016/March/Done


</doc>
<doc id="541454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541454" title="Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archive14">
Wikipedia:Requests for checkuser/Archive14

I would like to request a CU investigation on the above two users. Their edits were to the same kind of topics, and they both used the unique term eolgi. Additionally, the IP did not start editing until after was warned. -- () 22:53, 7 February 2016 (UTC)
Hello I'm and I requesting a CU to investigate who I believe is either a local property developer or some one in his payment altering the following page Budbrooke ()for vested interests. Regardless of my beliefs the user mentioned has stated that he not local and basing his edits and alterations on ignorance. If he can't google it or has no knowledge of it he removes the content regardless of references, that he conveniently contests and dismisses. Certainly my beliefs about this User:Cls14 have been shaped by the thought that someone who has invested money in property in the area would not be to keen on earthquakes, tornado’s or sinkholes being mentioned.
<br>
These users not only have similar names, they also work on similar articles. The first one listed is indef'd and globally locked. -- () 23:04, 17 February 2016 (UTC)
Could checkusers look into the range? Lots of activity in its English Wikipedia block log. We've got contributing here right now and some of his behavior seems questionable so far which makes me wonder if we need to block the range as well. () 22:37, 19 February 2016 (UTC)
 has arrived on our wiki, and has been making many changes on Pakistani languages (a sensitive and much edited area). I assume he is the same editor who is indefinitely blocked on En wiki as one of the many socks of user:Najaf ali bhayo. () 10:45, 30 April 2016 (UTC)
Subject area of edits, workflow of adding dubious article maintenance tags, and use of Twinkle straight from the start reminds me of 's behaviour.     16:11, 10 May 2016 (UTC)
, let me add an additional note. I checked his Enwiki stuff and his contributions are a little weird. His most recent edit was to request a page for page protection, which was not edited since Feb 2013. Also, he has added a ton of badges to his user page. Its ki nd of weird how he knew things off the bat. () 20:08, 13 May 2016 (UTC)
I (Krett12) believe 72.64.5.169 to be an IPsock of LastResort4All. Both of them seem to hate Ponyo, edit at similar times of day, always agree with each other. I'm not one to accuse socks a lot of the time, so I would like this case to be followed up with a CheckUser. () 00:11, 8 June 2016 (UTC)
User strongly reminds me of /. Same style of editing behavior, same use of behind-the-scenes sarcastic edit summaries and self-reverts with the same "oops" or "forget it" style justifications. Has heavy use of the same "vandal fighting" tool (Twinkle) right from the start. Her editing also began (as a user) on 24 June, which is the same date that Computer Fizz stopped editing. When I brought this issue up to see what another editor () thought I should do, the replies from LaurenCox600 followed quickly by the first edits from Computer Fizz since he stopped on the 24th seem to reinforce the behavior evidence that they are either the same person or strongly related. I am requesting a CheckUser based on the similar behavior patterns. Thank you, 08:52, 1 July 2016 (UTC)
Editing the same type of articles. Similar introductory messages on their user pages. Similar phrasing of talk messages. New user SanJoseGirl6 denying (on my talk page) that she is a sock of LaurenCox600 even though she's a brand new user and no one had suggested that she was. New user going out of her way to praise LaurenCox600 and say how badly she has been treated (on her own user page and LaurenCox600's talk page). -- () 05:45, 26 July 2016 (UTC)
Similarity in editing: vexatious and over-detailed changes to data on fossil animal size, weight, dimensions. () 16:50, 2 August 2016 (UTC)
Looks like this user account has managed to evade the global hardblock on the /64 IPv6 range. Requesting CU to root out sleeper accounts and apply more rangeblocks as necessary.     02:00, 22 September 2016 (UTC)
These two accounts have been vandalizing the same types of articles and creating similar bad pages. As was blocked, was created and was used to continue vandalizing. 

</doc>
<doc id="541457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541457" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Zing It">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Zing It


</doc>
<doc id="541474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541474" title="The Chain of Generations Center">
The Chain of Generations Center

The Chain of Generations Center (מרכז שרשרת הדורות - Merkaz Sharsheret HaDorot) is an "art museum" at the Western Wall Plaza in the Jewish Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem beside the Western Wall which dedicated to the Jewish people history in Glasses. the "Chain of Generations Center" special exhibitions is located in a tunnel that runs several underground spaces, including works sculpted glass, light games, smoke, sound, holograms and archeological finds are. the museum was opened in 2006. 

</doc>
<doc id="541476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541476" title="Western Wall Tunnel">
Western Wall Tunnel

Western Wall Tunnel are underground tunnel from different periods in history from the Western Wall to the Jewish Quarter under the Old City of Jerusalem. The complex of buildings from both medieval and modern era. Walking horizontal axis connects the chambers and tunnels, gives the visitor an experience of a journey along the historical timeline, and is considered one of the most popular tourist destinations in Israel.

</doc>
<doc id="541480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541480" title="Rezső Nyers">
Rezső Nyers

Rezső Nyers (born 21 March 1923) is a former Hungarian politician. He served as Minister of Finance of Hungary from 1960 to 1962. For a few months in 1989, he was the country's last Communist leader serving as President of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party.

</doc>
<doc id="541482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541482" title="Uday Hussein">
Uday Hussein

Uday Saddam Hussein al-Tikriti () (June 1964 – 22 July 2003) was the oldest son of Saddam Hussein, the fifth President of Iraq. He had one younger brother named Qusay Hussein. For years, people thought that Uday would become the head of Iraq after his father died. However, Uday lost this place to Qusay for several reasons: because Uday was badly injured in an assassination attempt; because his behavior was often out of control; and because his relations with his family became more and more troubled.
Uday has been accused of many crimes, including many rapes, murders, and torture. Uday was imprisoned several times, exiled, and received a token death sentence by his father's regime. After the United States-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, Task force 20 killed Uday, Qusay, and Qusay's son Mustapha after a four-hour gunfight in Mosul.
Uday was born in Tikrit, Iraq, to Saddam Hussein and Sajida Talfah. Saddam was in prison for the first three years of Uday's life.
Uday graduated from high school with very high marks. He started university at Baghdad University College of Medicine, but he only lasted three days there. After that, he moved to the College of Engineering. Uday got a degree in engineering and graduated "summa cum laude" from Baghdad University. However, some of his professors later admitted that Uday barely managed to earn passing grades in many of his classes. They said he was given the honor of "summa cum laude", and the rank of valedictorian (ranking first out of 76 students) because he was the President's son.
Many sources say that Qusay was clearly Saddam's favorite son. When Uday was in his early 20s, Saddam wrote him a letter on official presidential letterhead. A classmate of Uday's and a bodyguard both said Saddam wrote something like "Don't be like your [mother's father], with no morals or principles."
In 1988, Uday became even more unpopular with his father. In October 1988, Saddam had a party for Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's wife, Suzanne. At the party, in front of all the guests, Uday murdered his father's personal valet and food taster, Kamel Hana Gegeo. Uday beat Gegeo, and according to witnesses, stabbed him with an electric carving knife. Gegeo had recently introduced Saddam to a younger woman, Samira Shahbandar, who later became Saddam's second wife. Uday thought this was an insult to his mother. He also may have feared that Saddam would make Gegeo, not Uday, his heir.
As punishment for the murder, Saddam briefly imprisoned his son and sentenced him to death. However, Uday probably served only three months in a private prison. In response to personal intervention from King Hussein of Jordan, Saddam released Uday, banishing him to Switzerland as the assistant to the Iraqi ambassador there. He was expelled by the Swiss government in 1990 after he was repeatedly arrested for fighting.
Saddam later put Uday in charge of the Iraqi Olympic Committee and the Iraq Football Association. Uday tortured Olympic athletes who failed to win. He also became the editor of the "Babel" newspaper; the general secretary of the Iraqi Union of Students; and the head of the Fedayeen Saddam. Uday seemed proud of his reputation and called himself "Abu Sarhan", an Arabic term for "wolf".
In December 1996, somebody tried to assassinate Uday. Uday was driving at the time, and was hit by many bullets. He was permanently injured. At first, doctors thought he was paralyzed. He was evacuated to Ibn Sina Hospital. He had many surgeries, but a bullet was so close to his spinal cord that his doctors could not remove it. Eventually, he was able to walk, but not without a limp. Because of Uday's disabilities, Saddam gave Qusay more responsibility and authority, and named him as his heir apparent in 2000.
In a sign of loyalty to Saddam, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, who was vice president of the Revolutionary Command Council, agreed to let Uday marry his daughter. But al-Douri had so much influence over Saddam that he could make Saddam promise the marriage would never be consummated. (This means his daughter would never have to have sex with Uday.) However, soon after the marriage, because of Uday's violent and out-of-control behaviour, al-Douri quickly asked that his daughter be allowed to divorce Uday.
Uday loved luxury cars, especially European sports cars. He collected many hundreds of these cars. According to witnesses, Uday had thousands of suits, and each suit had to match the color of the car he was driving that day. When U.S.-led military forces were about to take over Baghdad, he ordered his bodyguards to burn the cars so the United States could not take them.
In 2002, Uday opened accounts with Yahoo! and MSN Messenger. This created controversy. At the time, the United States had trade sanctions against Iraq. This meant Iraq was not allowed to use American products. By using Yahoo! and MSN Messenger, Uday was violating these trade sanctions.
Uday also built up a large video collection, found in his palace in 2003. Many of the videos showed himself in both public and private situations.
Uday was accused of imprisoning, torturing, and even murdering athletes both men and women. As head of the Iraqi Olympic Committee, when Uday thought players did not play well enough, he ordered them to be tortured or sent to prison. According to many reports, torturers beat and caned the soles of the football players' feet. This caused severe pain without leaving visible marks on the rest of their bodies. Uday reportedly kept scorecards with written instructions on how many times each player should be beaten after a poor showing. One defector reported that jailed football players were forced to kick a concrete ball after failing to reach the 1994 FIFA World Cup finals.
Uday would insult athletes who performed below his expectations by calling them dogs and monkeys to their faces. The Iraqi national football team were seen with their heads shaved after failing to achieve a good result in a tournament in the 1980s. It was widely said that Uday ordered the shaving to punish the players.
Another defector claimed that athletes were dragged through a gravel pit and then put in a sewage tank so their wounds would become infected. After Iraq lost 4–1 to Japan in the quarter finals of the 2000 AFC Asian Cup in Lebanon, goalkeeper Hashim Hassan, defender Abdul Jaber, and forward Qahtan Chatir were labelled as guilty of loss and eventually flogged for three days by Uday's security guards.
Uday was well known for kidnapping young Iraqi girls and women from the streets in order to rape them. Uday was known to go into parties and pick out women whom he would later rape. "Time" published an article in 2003 detailing his sexual brutality.
For example, "Time" reported that in 1998, Uday kidnapped a 14-year-old girl, kept her for three days, and raped her. The girl's father kept complaining, in public, that Uday had raped his daughter. After three months, Uday sent two guards to threaten the girl's father. He also ordered the father to bring both his 14-year-old and 12-year-old daughters to Uday's next party. He told the girls' father: "Your daughters will be my girlfriends, or I'll wipe you off the face of the earth." The man obeyed, and brought both girls to the next party.
"Time" also reported that two different times, Uday showed up at weddings and took away the bride to rape. The first time, in the late 1990s, after Uday raped the bride, the groom shot himself in the head. The second time, in October 2002, Uday raped the bride, burned her body with acid, and killed her.
Uday was also well known for torturing anyone who disagreed with him. For example, he once beat an army officer unconscious when the man refused to allow Uday to dance with his wife. The man later died of his injuries. Uday also shot and killed an army officer who did not salute him.
Uday was reported to have his own private torture chamber. He used many different ways of torturing people, including an iron maiden.
According to a family friend who spoke to "Time" magazine:
Uday gained millions of United States dollars by running fake corporations and illegally trading with Iran (Iraq's sworn enemy). At this time, the United Nations did not allow Iraq to trade with other countries. By using fake corporations, Uday was able to get around this rule. From Iran, he was able to get almost anything he wanted.
When U.S. troops captured his mansion in Baghdad, they found a personal zoo stocked with lions and cheetahs; an underground parking garage for his collection of luxury cars; Cuban cigars inscribed with Uday's name; and millions of dollars worth of fine wines, liquor, and heroin. They also found an HIV testing kit.
On 22 July 2003, Task Force 20 and the United States Army 101st Airborne Division raided a home in Mosul, Iraq. They surrounded Uday, Qusay, and Qusay's 14-year-old son, Mustapha. They had received a tip from an Iraqi that Uday and Qusay were in the home.
United States soldiers got Uday to show himself by hot-wiring Uday's Lamborghini. After Uday appeared, a gunfight started. As many as 200 American soldiers, along with OH-58 Kiowa helicopters and an A-10 "Warthog", surrounded and fired upon the house. They killed Uday, Qusay, and Qusay's son. After about four hours of battle, soldiers entered the house and found four bodies, including the Hussein brothers' bodyguard.
Dental records proved that two of the men killed in the house were Uday and Qusay, according to the United States Military. They also announced that the person who gave them the tip about where Uday and Qusay were staying would get a $30 million reward.
The United States Military released graphic pictures of the Hussein brothers' dead bodies. Many people criticized this decision. When criticized, the U.S. Military's response was to point out that these men were no ordinary combatants. The Military also said they released the pictures to prove that Uday and Qusay were dead, and that they hoped this would bring closure to the Iraqi people.
Uday was buried in a cemetery near Tikrit alongside Qusay and Mustapha Hussein. After his execution in 2006, Saddam Hussein was buried in the same cemetery.
That night, and several nights following Uday and Qusay Hussein's death, celebratory gunfire could be heard throughout Baghdad.
Uday has been portrayed in several movies and books. Latif Yahia has written three books about Uday: "I Was Saddam's Son"; "The Devil's Double"; and "The Black Hole". In these books, Yahia says he was forced to be a body double for Uday. "The Devil's Double" was made into a movie, starring Dominic Cooper as Uday. The National Geographic Channel also produced an episode of "Locked Up Abroad" that tells Lahia's story.
Uday was played by Philip Arditti in "House of Saddam."
In his book "Separation of Power", Vince Flynn describes Uday's behavior. In the book, the main character, Mitch Rapp, pretends to be Uday.

</doc>
<doc id="541483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541483" title="Reg Grundy">
Reg Grundy

Reginald Roy "Reg" Grundy (4 August 1923 – 6 May 2016) was an Australian entrepreneur, and media and television mogul. He was one of the pioneers and most successful television businessman in Australia. He was born in Sydney.
He was also the creator of many TV hits starting with game shows like "Wheel of Fortune" and "Blankety Blanks" and later soap operas "Neighbours", "Prisoner", "Sons and Daughters" and "The Young Doctors".
Grundy died at his home in Bermuda on 6 May 2016, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="541486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541486" title="Riki Sorsa">
Riki Sorsa

Richard Esko "Riki" Sorsa (26 December 1952 – 9 May 2016) was a Finnish pop singer. He started his career in 1974 as the lead singer in the band The Zoo. He represented Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 1981 with the song "Reggae OK". 
Sorsa died of cancer on 10 May 2016, aged 63.

</doc>
<doc id="541487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541487" title="Anne Jules de Noailles, Duke of Noailles">
Anne Jules de Noailles, Duke of Noailles

Anne Jules de Noailles, Duke of Noailles (5 February 1650 - 2 October 1708) was a French nobleman from the House of Noailles. A well regarded military man of his day, he was a general under King Louis XIV of France and was later the subject of a painting by the famous court painter Hyacinthe Rigaud
Son of Anne de Noailles and his wife, Louise Boyer, he acceded to the title of Duke of Noailles on his father's death in 1678. He was married to Marie Françoise de Bournonville, with whom he had children. One of the chief generals of France towards the end of the reign of Louis XIV, and, after raising the regiment of Noailles in 1689, he commanded in Spain during both the Nine Years' War and the War of the Spanish Succession. He was made a marshal of France in 1693. He died on October 2, 1708. 
Anne Jules de Noailles had many children

</doc>
<doc id="541491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541491" title="Ilkka Hanski">
Ilkka Hanski

Ilkka Aulis Hanski (14 February 1953 – 10 May 2016) was a Finnish scientist. He worked in the field of ecology at the University of Helsinki. He is known for his research of metapopulation ecology. 
Hanski died of a long-illness on 10 May 2016 at a hospital in Helsinki, aged 63.

</doc>
<doc id="541492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541492" title="Louis van Gasteren">
Louis van Gasteren

Louis Alphonse van Gasteren (20 November 1922 – 10 May 2016) was a Dutch movie director, movie producer, and artist. He was born in Amsterdam. He was known for his movies "" (1983) and "De prijs van overleven" (2003). He won two Golden Calf Awards. His career began in the 1950s. At the time of his death, he was the oldest active filmmaker in the Netherlands.
Van Gasteren died in Amsterdam on 10 May 2016, aged 93.

</doc>
<doc id="541494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541494" title="Philippe Beaussant">
Philippe Beaussant

Philippe Beaussant (6 May 1930 – 8 May 2016) was a French musicologist and novelist. He was expert on French baroque music. He was born in Bordeaux, France.
He was the founder of the Centre de Musique Baroque de Versailles. He was the artistic adviser of 1987 to 1996. He has also been a producer of musical programs for Radio France since 1974. He was known for writing the biography of Jean-Baptiste Lully, "Lully ou le musicien du soleil" (Éditions Gallimard, 1992). 
Beaussant won the 1993 Grand Prix du roman de l'Académie française for his novel "Héloïse".
He was elected to seat 36 of the Académie française on 15 November 2007. He died in Paris on 8 May 2016, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="541495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541495" title="Motiur Rahman Nizami">
Motiur Rahman Nizami

Motiur Rahman Nizami (Bengali: মতিউর রহমান নিজামী; 31 March 1943 – 11 May 2016) was a Bangladeshi politician, preacher and the former leader of the Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami. He was the Member of Parliament of Pabna constituency from 1991 to 1996 and again from 2001 to 2006. He also served as the Bangladeshi Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Industry. He is the third minister of Bangladesh to be hanged. 
On 29 October 2014 he was sentenced to death for war crimes in 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh by the International Crimes Tribunal of Bangladesh. It has been though that he was the supreme commander of the militia group Al-Badr during the Bangladesh Liberation War.
He was hanged at Dhaka Central Jail on 11 May 2016, aged 73.

</doc>
<doc id="541499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541499" title="Adrien Maurice de Noailles, Duke of Noailles">
Adrien Maurice de Noailles, Duke of Noailles

Adrien Maurice de Noailles, (3rd) Duke of Noailles (29 September 1678 – 24 June 1766) was a French aristocrat and soldier. He also acted as the Foreign Minister of France in 1744. As a result of his efforts in war he was created a 1702, a Grandee of Spain in 1711, and a Knight of the Order of Saint-Esprit in 1724. As well as a Marshal of France in 1734 by Louis XV.
Son of Anne Jules de Noailles, Duke of Noailles on his father's death in 1708. He married Françoise Charlotte d'Aubigné, the niece and heiress of Louis XIV's wife Madame de Maintenon, with whom he had 4 daughters and 2 sons.

</doc>
<doc id="541514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541514" title="Gilles Lamontagne">
Gilles Lamontagne

Joseph-Georges-Gilles-Claude Lamontagne (; April 17, 1919 – June 14, 2016) was a Canadian retired politician. He served as the 24th Lieutenant Governor of Quebec from March 28, 1984 through August 9, 1990. Before, he served as Mayor of Quebec City from December 1, 1965 through December 1, 1977. He retired in 1990.
Lamontagne was born in Montreal. He fought during World War II. Lamontagne fought as a bomber pilot in the Royal Canadian Air Force. He ended his air force service in the rank of flight lieutenant in 1945. In 1949, he married Mary Schaefer. They would remain married until her death in 2006. They had four children. 
In 1990, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 2000, he was made a Knight of the National Order of Quebec and in 2005, a member of l'Ordre des Grands Québécois. He is an honorary member of the Royal Military College of Canada. 
Lamontagne died on June 14, 2016 in Quebec City, aged 97.

</doc>
<doc id="541517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541517" title="Category:Articles with unsourced statements from May 2016">
Category:Articles with unsourced statements from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541532" title="Category:Disease-related deaths in Finland">
Category:Disease-related deaths in Finland


</doc>
<doc id="541560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541560" title="Kanyakumari">
Kanyakumari

Kanyakumari is the town in Tamil Nadu of India where two seas and an ocean joins together. It is the southern tip of India. This town along with the some areas which was now occupied by the Indian Ocean was known as "Kumarikkandam"[குமரிக்கண்டம்], . This is a place that was predicted by Tamilians as the place where the first man and Tamil language originated. The coastal town Kanyakumari has the Thiruvalluvar statue.

</doc>
<doc id="541569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541569" title="Petrykivka painting">
Petrykivka painting

Petrykivka painting is a traditional Ukrainian decorative painting. It originates from the Petrykivka village in Dnipropetrovsk oblast of Ukraine. 
In 2013 it was included to the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.

</doc>
<doc id="541576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541576" title="Pesse">
Pesse

Pesse is a village located in the Dutch province of Drenthe in the Netherlands. The Pesse canoe is known as the world's oldest boat is located in Pesse.

</doc>
<doc id="541578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541578" title="Category:Articles lacking sources from May 2016">
Category:Articles lacking sources from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="541591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541591" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/16sheld120 sandbox">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/16sheld120 sandbox


</doc>
<doc id="541606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541606" title="John Stabb">
John Stabb

Jonathan Dukes "John" Schroeder (July 12, 1961 – May 7, 2016) was an American rock musician. He was born in Washington, D.C.. He was raised in Rockville, Maryland. He was best known as the founding member of Government Issue.
On May 7, 2016, Stabb died of stomach cancer at age 54.

</doc>
<doc id="541613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541613" title="Nico de Bree">
Nico de Bree

Nico de Bree (16 September 1944 – 6 May 2016) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a goalkeeper. De Bree started his professional career at local club Elinkwijk. He moved to N.E.C. in 1966. 
After playing 204 matches for the Nijmegen club, he moved to play in Belgium and won the 1975 league title with RWDM. He won the 1978 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup with Anderlecht. He also played for Winterslag and Beerschot.
He died of cancer in Vienna on 6 May 2016, aged 71.

</doc>
<doc id="541615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541615" title="Gene Gutowski">
Gene Gutowski

Gene Gutowski, born as Witold Bardach, (July 26, 1925 in Lwów, Poland, now Ukraine – May 10, 2016 Warsaw) was a Polish-born American movie producer. He produced many of Roman Polanski's movies. He was known for producing "The Pianist", "The Fearless Vampire Killers", "Cul-de-sac". 
Gutowski died of pneumonia in Warsaw, Poland on May 10, 2016, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="541616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541616" title="Category:Television series about animals">
Category:Television series about animals


</doc>
<doc id="541618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541618" title="Acetylcholinesterase">
Acetylcholinesterase

Acetylcholinesterase is an enzyme found in nerve synapses, including nerve-to-muscle junctions. Its function is to end transmission across a synapse.
It breaks up neurotransmitters like acetylcholine, and allows us to extend our muscles after contraction.

</doc>
<doc id="541619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541619" title="Category:Animals in fiction">
Category:Animals in fiction


</doc>
<doc id="541620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541620" title="John Warr">
John Warr

John James Warr (16 July 1927 – 9 May 2016) was an English cricketer. He was a successful county player for Middlesex County Cricket Club. He played two Test matches for England. With his Test bowling average remains the worst of any retired English player. Warr was known for his sense of humour and made many humorous after dinner speeches. He was born in Ealing, Middlesex, England,
Warr died on 9 May 2016, aged 88.

</doc>
<doc id="541621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541621" title="Category:2010s in South America">
Category:2010s in South America


</doc>
<doc id="541622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541622" title="Category:2010s by continent">
Category:2010s by continent


</doc>
<doc id="541626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541626" title="John Young (baseball)">
John Young (baseball)

John Thomas Young (February 9, 1949 – May 8, 2016) was an American professional baseball player. He also scouted and worked in the front office. Young played in Major League Baseball for the Detroit Tigers in 1971. He founded Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities (RBI), a youth baseball program aimed at increasing participation among African Americans in baseball. He was born in Los Angeles, California.
Young died in Los Angeles, California from diabetes on May 8, 2016, aged 67.

</doc>
<doc id="541630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541630" title="Karl Maramorosch">
Karl Maramorosch

Karl Maramorosch (January 16, 1915 – May 9, 2016) was an Austrian-born American virologist, entomologist and plant pathologist. He was born in Vienna.
He made research on viruses, mycoplasmas, rickettsiae and other micro-organisms and their transmission to plants through insect in many parts of the world. 
He was the co-author of a textbook on techniques in virology. He was the author of numerous papers on the biology and ecology of plant viruses, their hosts and vectors. He received the Wolf Prize in Agriculture in 1980 for his work to the study of crop pathogens.
Maramorosch died in Ithaca, New York on May 9, 2016, aged 101.

</doc>
<doc id="541631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541631" title="John Bradshaw (author)">
John Bradshaw (author)

John Elliot Bradshaw (; (June 29, 1933 – May 8, 2016) was an American educator, counselor, motivational speaker and author. He hosted a number of PBS television programs such as '. He was active in the self-help movement. He was known for creating the idea of "wounded inner child" and the dysfunctional family. His books are mainly works of popular psychology. His most popular book is '. He was born in Houston, Texas.
On May 8, 2016, Bradshaw died of heart failure in Houston at the age of 82.

</doc>
<doc id="541632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541632" title="Michael Ratner">
Michael Ratner

Michael Ratner (1943 – May 11, 2016) was an American lawyer. He was the President Emeritus of the Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR) and president of the European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights (ECCHR). Ratner was known for his human rights activism.
He was known as representing the Guantanamo Bay prisoners in the United States Supreme Court, where, in June 2004, the court decided his clients have the right to test the legality of their detentions in court.
Ratner died from complications of cancer on May 11, 2016, aged 72.

</doc>
<doc id="541634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541634" title="Tony Cozier">
Tony Cozier

Winston Anthony Lloyd "Tony" Cozier (10 July 1940 – 11 May 2016) was a Barbadian cricket writer. He was a commentator on West Indian cricket from 1958 until his death. Cozier was described as having an "encyclopaedic" knowledge of cricket. Cozier was born in Bridgetown, Barbados. He was known for his knowledge of statistics.
Cozier died on 11 May 2016 in Bridgetown from a long-illness, aged 75.

</doc>
<doc id="541635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541635" title="Peter Behrens (musician)">
Peter Behrens (musician)

Peter Behrens (4 September 1947 – 11 May 2016) was a German drummer, actor, musician and clown. Behrens was best known for being a member of the German band Trio in the early 1980s, where he played the drums. After Trio ended in 1986, and after overcoming alcoholism and a drug problem he retired.
Behrens had two children. He died on 11 May 2016 from multiple organ failure in Wilhelmshaven, Germany, aged 68.

</doc>
<doc id="541644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541644" title="The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah">
The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah

The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah is a painting by John Martin (1789-1854). Martin painted it in 1852. 
John Martin was famous for painting landscapes in the style of Romanticism. He painted pictures of the end of the world and events from the Bible. 
"The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah" was the last painting that Martin finished. He completed it in 1852 and sent it to the Royal Academy. In 1853 he started to paint "The Last Judgment", "The Great Day of His Wrath", and "The Plains of Heaven", but he became sick. He died the next year.
The painting shows the destruction of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah from the Bible. The picture shows Lot and his two daughters running from the city. Lot's wife looked back and became a pillar of salt. The painting has a red color and a storm in the sky, typical of Martin's work. 
"The Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah" is in the Laing Art Gallery in Newcastle, England.

</doc>
<doc id="541647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541647" title="Anne van den Ban">
Anne van den Ban

Anne Willem van den Ban (28 February 1928 — 7 May 2016) was a Dutch scholar. His work is on Agricultural Extension. He was born in Leeuwarderadeel. He taught on how innovations can help farmers produce more crops. He helped create many new ways for farmers to produce crops in The Netherlands. 
Van den Ban was an adviser to the Executive Council of the International Society for Extension Education (INSEE). He received a Life Time Achievement Award in September 2008 for his "outstanding contribution in the field of Extension Education, Agricultural Development and Rural Development". from this organization
Van den Ban died at the age of 88 on 7 May 2016 in Wageningen.

</doc>
<doc id="541691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541691" title="Subnautica">
Subnautica

Subnautica is an open world survival game made by Unknown Worlds Entertainment. "Subnautica" lets the player explore the sea of an alien planet by scuba diving, or using vehicles. They must collect resources and food to survive.. It came out on Steam Early Access on December 2014, and is currently being made for Xbox One. The full version is planned to come out for August 2016. 
The player in a first-person view controls the lone survivor of a crashed ship. The objective is to explore the planet and collect resources to survive, the player must make sure to not run out of oxygen and keep fed and hydrated. The player can create bases and build vehicles. The game uses a day and night cycle. 
"Subnautica" was announced by Unknown Worlds Entertainment on December 17, 2013.
They used Unity rather then spark which they used for Natural Selection 2.
The development team chose to not include lethal weapons in the game. Charlie Cleveland, the game's director, described Subnautica as "one vote towards a world with less guns,".
Ian Birnbaum of "PC Gamer" said "Subnautica" was an "underwater "Minecraft"", saying that "with an experienced developer at the helm and a limitless variety of the oceans to play with, it’s going to take a lot for "Subnautica" to go badly wrong. As the toolbox gets deeper and the shape of the end-game gets set, "Subnautica" will be a unique example of the ways survival can be tense, rewarding, and fun." Marsh Davies of "Rock, Paper, Shotgun" liked the rewarding nature of exploring the world of "Subnautica", but disliked that some of the in-game recipes were found by chance.

</doc>
<doc id="541694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541694" title="Category:People from Ealing">
Category:People from Ealing


</doc>
<doc id="541702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541702" title="Category:Dukes of Noailles">
Category:Dukes of Noailles


</doc>
<doc id="541703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541703" title="Category:House of Noailles">
Category:House of Noailles


</doc>
<doc id="541706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541706" title="Louis de Noailles, Duke of Noailles">
Louis de Noailles, Duke of Noailles

Louis de Noailles, Duke of Noailles (21 April 1713 - 22 August 1793) He was a member of the influential House of Noailles and was a nephew of Marie Victoire de Noailles, daughter-in-law of Louis XIV of France. He refused to emigrate during the Revolution.
Given the title of Duke of Ayen at birth he was born in Versailles and was one of six children. His father Adrien Maurice de Noailles was a distinguished military man of the reign of Louis XIV. Louis' mother was Françoise Charlotte d'Aubigné, the niece and heiress of Madame de Maintenon (Louis XIV's second "secret" wife)
On 25 February 1737 he married "Cathérine" Françoise Charlotte de Cossé-Brissac, with whom he had four children

</doc>
<doc id="541711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541711" title="Automatic Identification System">
Automatic Identification System

Automatic Identification System (AIS) is a way for a ship to use a radio to tell other ships about it's position. It sends messages every few seconds. These are received other ships and by stations on land and on some satellites. A ship knows its position by using Global Positioning System (GPS). Since 2004, all ships above 300 tons and all passenger ships have to use AIS. AIS was made to avoid ships colliding.

</doc>
<doc id="541718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541718" title="Rockcrawling">
Rockcrawling

Rock crawling is an extreme form of off-road driving. Participants use vehicles anywhere from stock to highly modified to overcome obstacles (usually rocks). In rock crawling, drivers drive highly modified four-wheel drive vehicles such as trucks, Jeeps, and "buggies" over very harsh terrain. Driving locations include boulders, mountain foothills, rock piles, mountain trails, etc.
Rock crawling is about slow-speed, careful and precise driving, and high torque generated through large gear reductions in the vehicle's drivetrain. Rock crawlers often drive up, down and across obstacles that would appear impassable. Most vehicles used to rock climb are primarily 4x4s.
Rock crawling competitions range from local events to national series. A rock crawling competition consists of obstacle courses that are about long. Each obstacle is set up with gates, similar to a ski course. Usually a spotter (person who guides the driver) helps the driver through hard obstacles. Spotters may also use a rope to help prevent a vehicle from tipping over. 
Vehicles commonly used include Jeep, Nissan Patrol, Toyota Land Cruiser, Land Rover, Ford Bronco, Suzuki Samurai, International Harvester Scout. Also, vehicles like the Mercedes Unimog due to its portal axles and greatly increased ground clearance. These vehicles are outfitted with custom parts. Power is usually not an issue, as rock crawlers typically lower their gear ratios in order to drive more slowly over obstacles without stalling the engine. These custom parts can include:
Oversized, low-pressure, knobby, mud-terrain tires are used. Most vehicles have a low-geared transfer case to make the most torque in the low speeds used for rock crawling. Suspension-wise, rock crawling vehicles sometimes have aftermarket lift kits installed, raising the chassis and increasing suspension flexibility. Highly modified rock crawling vehicles are less suitable for driving on roads and highways.
Building a dedicated rock crawler can cost a lot of money. For rock crawling competitions, getting a sponsors can help to cover some of these costs.

</doc>
<doc id="541721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541721" title="Nagappattinam">
Nagappattinam

Nagapattinam is a town and headquarters of Nagapattinam District in Tamil Nadu state of India. One of the town which was severely hit by the 2004 tsunami. 
As Nagapattinam is nearby the sea, the main occupation of the people here is Fishing.

</doc>
<doc id="541727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541727" title="Anne de Noailles, Duke of Noailles">
Anne de Noailles, Duke of Noailles

Anne de Noailles, (1st) Duke of Noailles (born after 1613 - 15 February 1678) was a French noble whose two sons bought the House of Noailles to prominence at the French royal court. Prior to being created a duke in 1663, he was a count. 
A son of François de Noailles who was created the "Count of Ayen" in 1663. He was eventually created the Duke of Noailles during the reign of Louis XIV in 1663. 
13 December 1645 he married Louise Boyer with whom he had six children with;

</doc>
<doc id="541737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541737" title="Elisa Mainardi">
Elisa Mainardi

Elisa Mainardi (27 July 1930 – 8 May 2016) was an Italian stage, movie and television actress. She was born in Rome. She was known for her roles in "Fellini Satyricon", "Roma", and "And the Ship Sails On". Mainardi was also known for being in movies directed by Federico Fellini.
Mainardi died in Rome, Italy on 8 May 2016, aged 85.

</doc>
<doc id="541738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541738" title="Prince Alexander of Yugoslavia (born 1924)">
Prince Alexander of Yugoslavia (born 1924)

Prince Alexander of Yugoslavia ("Aleksandar Pavlov Karađorđević"; 13 August 1924 – 12 May 2016) was the elder son of Prince Paul. His father served as Regent of Yugoslavia in the 1930s, and his wife, Princess Olga of Greece and Denmark. 
He was born in White Lodge, Richmond Park, Surrey.
Alexander married Princess Maria Pia of Savoy, daughter of King Umberto II of Italy in 1955. Alexander and Maria Pia divorced in 1967. 
On 17 February 2008, Alexander said that he did not support the declaration of independence by Kosovo.
Alexander died on 12 May 2016 in Paris, aged 91.

</doc>
<doc id="541742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541742" title="Joe Temperley">
Joe Temperley

Joe Temperley (20 September 1929 – 11 May 2016) was a Scottish saxophonist. He has performed with many instruments but is most associated with the baritone saxophone and bass clarinet. He was born in Lochgelly, Scotland. Temperley played with The Thad Jones/Mel Lewis Orchestra, but most famously with Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra.
Temperley died in Manhattan, New York from kidney failure after suffering from cancer on 11 May 2016, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="541744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541744" title="Arrondissement of Nantua">
Arrondissement of Nantua

The arrondissement of Nantua is an arrondissement of France in the Ain department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital is the city of Nantua.
It is found in the northern half of the department with an area of . It has 84,660 inhabitants and a density of inhabitants/km².
When the Ain department was created on 1800, the "arrondissement" of Nantua was part of that original department.
The "arrondissement" of Nantua is bordered to the north by the Jura department, to the northeast by the "arrondissement" of Gex, to the east by the Haute-Savoie department, to the south by the "arrondissement" of Belley and to the west by the "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse.
After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements".
In the "arrondissement" of Nantua, there are only 2 cantons whose "communes" are in the "arrondissement": Nantua (18 "communes") and Oyonnax (2 "communes"). The canton of Bellegarde-sur-Valserine has 1 "commune" in the "arrondissement" of Belley, 2 in the "arrondissement" of Gex and 11 in the "arrondissement" of Nantua; the canton of Hauteville-Lompnes has 29 "communes" in Belley and 12 in Nantua; and the canton of Pont-d'Ain has 4 "communes" in the "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse and 20 in Nantua.
The "arrondissement" of Nantua has 59 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):ː

</doc>
<doc id="541746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541746" title="Del Latta">
Del Latta

Delbert Leroy "Del" Latta (March 5, 1920 – May 12, 2016) was an American politician. He served as member of the United States House of Representatives from 1959 through 1989. He was a Republican. He was born in Weston, Ohio.
Latta died in Bowling Green, Ohio on May 12, 2016, aged 96.

</doc>
<doc id="541747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541747" title="Claw of Archimedes">
Claw of Archimedes

The Claw of Archimedes (also known as the "Iron Hand") was an ancient weapon. It was designed by Archimedes to defend the seaward part of Syracuse's city wall against amphibious assault. Although its exact nature is unclear, the accounts of ancient historians seem to describe it as a sort of crane equipped with a grappling hook. Apparently it was able to lift an attacking ship partly out of the water to capsize or suddenly drop it.

</doc>
<doc id="541748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541748" title="Bowling Green, Ohio">
Bowling Green, Ohio

Bowling Green is a city in and the county seat of Wood County, Ohio, United States. The population was 30,028 at the 2010 census. It is near Toledo, Ohio. Bowling Green is the home of Bowling Green State University.

</doc>
<doc id="541749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541749" title="Yukio Ninagawa">
Yukio Ninagawa

Ninagawa died of pneumonia at a hospital in Tokyo on May 12, 2016, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="541751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541751" title="Muhammad Abdul Wahhab">
Muhammad Abdul Wahhab

Haji Muhammad Abdul Wahhab (, "Ḥājī Muḥammad ‘Abdul-Wahhāb"; born January 1, 1923) is an Islam preacher and the "Ameer" of Tablighi Jamaat in Pakistan. He played an important role in the Tablighi Jamaat movement. 
Wahhab was born in Delhi, India. He studied at Islamia College in Lahore. 
In October 2013 it was reported that the name of Haji Abdul Wahhab was suggested to head a Loya Jirga in preparation for peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban.

</doc>
<doc id="541752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541752" title="Yusuf al-Qaradawi">
Yusuf al-Qaradawi

Yusuf al-Qaradawi (; or "Yusuf al-Qardawi"; born 9 September 1926) is an Egyptian-born Qatari Islamic theologian. He spent most of his life in Doha, Qatar. He is the chairman of the International Union of Muslim Scholars. 
He is best known for his programme, "al-Sharīʿa wa al-Ḥayāh" ("Sharia and Life"), broadcast on Al Jazeera, which has an audience of 60 million worldwide. He is also well known for IslamOnline, a popular website he helped found in 1997 and for which he now serves as chief religious scholar.

</doc>
<doc id="541753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541753" title="Catalogue of the Archbishops of Gniezno">
Catalogue of the Archbishops of Gniezno

Catalogue of the Archbishops of Gniezno is a Polish manuscript. 

</doc>
<doc id="541754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541754" title="Hal Riney">
Hal Riney

Hal Patrick Riney (17 July 1932 – 24 March 2008) was an American advertising executive. He was born in Seattle, Washington. He was the founder of Publicis & Hal Riney. Riney was named #30 on the "Advertising Age" 100 people of the 20th century. He was added into the Advertising Hall of Fame in 2001. He was mostly known as for narrating Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election ads "Morning in America" and "Bear in the Woods". 
Riney died at age 75 on 24 March 2008 from cancer at his home in San Francisco, California, aged 75.

</doc>
<doc id="541755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541755" title="Bear in the woods">
Bear in the woods

A television commercial known for its opening line "There is a bear in the woods" was created for the 1984 U.S. presidential re-election campaign of Ronald Reagan. 
The commercial shows a grizzly bear wandering through a forest. The narrator of the ad, Hal Riney, talks about how the bear could be dangerous and that it would be smart to be prepared for that possibility. In the final scene a man appears and the bear takes a step back. The ad ends with a picture of Reagan and the tagline: "President Reagan: Prepared for Peace". 
The bear could have either signified with the massive inflation the United States was facing, Democratic challenger Walter Mondale or the growing tensions of the Soviet Union and the Cold War.
Reagan was elected in a massive landslide in the 1984 elections winning 49 of the 50 states.

</doc>
<doc id="541757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541757" title="Arrondissement of Gex">
Arrondissement of Gex

The arrondissement of Gex is an arrondissement of France in the Ain department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital is the city of Gex. It corresponds approximately to the historical region of the Pays de Gex
It is found in the northeastern part of the department with an area of , the smallest "arrondissement" of the department. It has 87,153 inhabitants and a density of inhabitants/km².
When the Ain department was created on 1800, the "arrondissement" of Gex was not part of that original department; the "arrondissement" was created in 1815. In 1926, the "arrondissement" was eliminated but in 1933 it became again an "arrondissement" the Ain department.
The "arrondissement" of Gex is bordered to the north and northwest by the Jura department, to the northeast and east by Switzerland, to the southeast by the Haute-Savoie department and to the southwest by the "arrondissement" of Nantua.
After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements".
In the "arrondissement" of Gex, there are 3 cantons whose "communes" are in the "arrondissement": Gex (7 "communes"), Saint-Genis-Pouilly (4 "communes") and Thoiry (16 "communes"). The canton of Bellegarde-sur-Valserine has 1 "commune" in the "arrondissement" of Belley, 2 in Gex and 11 in the "arrondissement" of Nantua.
The "arrondissement" of Gex has 29 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):ː

</doc>
<doc id="541774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541774" title="Oscar Malapitan">
Oscar Malapitan

Oscar Malapitan is a Filipino politician. He is the mayor of Caloocan City. He helped to make Caloocan the most competitive city in the Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="541804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541804" title="Jemaa el-Fnaa">
Jemaa el-Fnaa

Jamaa el Fna (Arabic: ساحة جامع الفناء "saaHat jamaaʻ al-fanâʼ", also Jemaa el-Fnaa, Djema el-Fna or Djemaa el-Fnaa) is a famous square in Old city of Marrakesh, Morocco.
On April 28, 2011 an explosion originated at the cafe "Aragana" in the square. 17 people were killed while 25 were wounded in the blast. According to local media reports, one source of the blast was a gas pipe.

</doc>
<doc id="541805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541805" title="Category:Archimedes">
Category:Archimedes


</doc>
<doc id="541810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541810" title="Differential (mechanical device)">
Differential (mechanical device)

A differential is a mechanical device made up of several gears. It is used in almost all mechanized four-wheel vehicles. It is used to transmit the power from the driveshaft to the drive wheels. Its main function is to allow the drive wheels to turn at different rpms allowing the wheels to go around corners while still receiving power from the engine.

</doc>
<doc id="541813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541813" title="Category:1993 comedy movies">
Category:1993 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541819" title="Category:2015 American television series endings">
Category:2015 American television series endings


</doc>
<doc id="541820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541820" title="Category:2011 comedy movies">
Category:2011 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541821" title="Category:2010 comedy movies">
Category:2010 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541823" title="Category:Comedy movies by year">
Category:Comedy movies by year


</doc>
<doc id="541825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541825" title="Obstacle course">
Obstacle course

An obstacle course is a series of obstacles a person, vehicle or team must navigate. This is usually while being timed. Obstacle courses can include running, climbing, jumping, crawling, swimming, and balanceing with the aim of testing speed and endurance. Sometimes a course involves mental tests. In an off-road obstacle course, the driver is presented with a variety of different terrain to get over, around or through.
The military/Army obstacle course is used (mostly in recruit training). The purpose is to familiarize recruits with the kind of military tactics they will use in combat. It is also for physical fitness, building teamwork, and evaluating problem solving skills. Typical courses involve obstacles the participants must climb over, crawl under, balance, hang, jump, etc. Puddles of muddy water, ropes, nets, and "no touch" restrictions are often used to make the course more difficult. 
Off-road obstacle courses may be set up with a variety of different challenging situations. More common obstacles are hills, rockcrawling gates, log crawls, and mud pits. Some include underground tunnels, balance beams and water slides. Others are for the purposes of teaching high-speed driving on unimproved roads. Features include different kinds of turns, changes in elevation, navigating high speed straightaways and maneuvering vehicles through tight S-turns (so called because from above they resemble a letter "s").

</doc>
<doc id="541827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541827" title="Category:2010 drama movies">
Category:2010 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541828" title="Category:2010 romance movies">
Category:2010 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="541831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541831" title="Furcula">
Furcula

The furcula ("little fork" in Latin) is commonly called the wishbone. It is a forked bone in birds and
some extinct dinosaurs.
It is a strut between a bird's shoulders, and connects to each of the bird's scapulae (shoulder blades). A strut is a structure which resists compression (pushing together) along its length.
It is formed by the fusion of the two clavicles (shoulder blades). In birds, its main function is to strengthen the thoracic skeleton to withstand the forces of flight.
X-ray films of starlings in flight have shown that the furcula expands when the wings are pulled downward, and snaps back as they are raised. Acting like a spring, the furcula stores some of the energy generated by contraction of the breast muscles. Then it releases the energy during the upstroke as the furcula snaps back to the normal position. This, in turn, draws the shoulders toward the midline of the body.
Surprisingly, the furcula is not essential for flying, and there are a number of birds which can fly well, but have a reduced furcula, or none at all.
Several groups of theropod dinosaurs had furculae.

</doc>
<doc id="541836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541836" title="Wilfredo León">
Wilfredo León

Wilfredo León Venero (born 31 July 1993) is a Cuban volleyball player with Polish citizenship (since July 14, 2015), a member of Cuba men's national volleyball team in 2007–2012 and Russian club Zenit Kazan, silver medalist of the World Championship 2010, NORCECA Champion (2009, 2011), Cuban Champion (2009, 2010, 2011), Russian Champion (2015, 2016).

</doc>
<doc id="541838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541838" title="Bartosz Kurek">
Bartosz Kurek

Bartosz Kamil Kurek (born 29 August 1988) is a Polish volleyball player, a member of Poland men's national volleyball team and Japanese club JT Thunders Hiroshima, a participant of the 2012 Summer Olympics, 2009 European Champion, a gold medalist of the 2012 World League, a silver medalist of the 2011 World Cup, a bronze medalist of the 2011 World League, 2011 European Championship and 2015 World Cup, three-time Polish Champion (2009, 2010, 2011) and Italian Champion (2014).

</doc>
<doc id="541843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541843" title="Frans Jeppsson Wall">
Frans Jeppsson Wall

Frans Jeppsson Wall (born 19 December 1998), more commonly known as Frans, is a Swedish singer and songwriter. He won Melodifestivalen 2016 and will represent Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2016 in Stockholm, Sweden with the song "If I Were Sorry". He is of both English and Nigerian descent.

</doc>
<doc id="541844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541844" title="Eurovision Song Contest 2016">
Eurovision Song Contest 2016

The Eurovision Song Contest 2016 was the 61st edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It was held in Stockholm, Sweden in May 2016. Forty two countries participated, and Australia participated for the second time. The winner was Jamala with the song 1944 representing Ukraine.
People around the world watched the contest on television, and people in the participating countries could vote on their telephones for their favourite song. Each country added up their votes, and gave 1-8, 10 and 12 points to their favourite countries.

</doc>
<doc id="541845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541845" title="Category:2011 drama movies">
Category:2011 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541850" title="Category:2011 romance movies">
Category:2011 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="541854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541854" title="Category:2012 comedy movies">
Category:2012 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541858" title="Category:2012 drama movies">
Category:2012 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541860" title="Category:Drama movies by year">
Category:Drama movies by year


</doc>
<doc id="541862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541862" title="Category:2012 romance movies">
Category:2012 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="541863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541863" title="Category:Romance movies by year">
Category:Romance movies by year


</doc>
<doc id="541864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541864" title="Category:Movies by year">
Category:Movies by year


</doc>
<doc id="541865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541865" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Wikipedia:List of Wikipedians by number of changes">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Wikipedia:List of Wikipedians by number of changes


</doc>
<doc id="541868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541868" title="Arrondissement of Bourg-en-Bresse">
Arrondissement of Bourg-en-Bresse

The arrondissement of Bourg-en-Bresse is an arrondissement of France in the Ain department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital is the city of Bourg-en-Bresse.
It is found in the western half of the department with an area of , the largest "arrondissement" of the department. It is the "arrondissement" with more people living in it, with 350,548 inhabitants and a density of inhabitants/km².
When the Ain department was created on 1800, the "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse was part of that original department.
The "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse is bordered to the northwest by the Saône-et-Loire department, to the northeast by the Jura department, to the west by the "arrondissements" of Nantua and Belley, and to the southwest by the Rhône department.
After the reorganisation of the cantons in France, cantons are not subdivisions of the "arrondissements" so they could have "communes" that belong to different "arrondissements".
In the "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse, there are 12 cantons whose "communes" are in the "arrondissement":
The canton of Lagnieu has 22 "communes" in the "arrondissement" of Belley and 4 in the "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse; and the canton of Pont-d'Ain has 4 "communes" in Bourg-en-Bresse and 20 in the "arrondissement" of Nantua.
The "arrondissement" of Bourg-en-Bresse has 218 "communes"; they are (with their INSEE codes):ː

</doc>
<doc id="541869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541869" title="Arrondissements of the Ain department">
Arrondissements of the Ain department

There are 4 arrondissements in the Ain department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into "arrondissements", which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.
If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.
Arrondissements are further divided into communes.
The 4 arrondissements of Ain are:
Since its creation, the Ain department has had some changes:

</doc>
<doc id="541871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541871" title="Mustafa Badreddine">
Mustafa Badreddine

Mustafa Badreddine, (‎; 6 April 1961 – c. 12 May 2016), also known as Mustafa Badr Al Din, Mustafa Amine Badreddine, Mustafa Youssef Badreddine, Sami Issa and Elias Fouad Saab, was a Lebanese military leader. He was a member of Hezbollah. He both the cousin and brother-in-law of late Imad Mugniyah. He was nicknamed Dhu al-Fiqar.
Badreddine escaped from the prison in 1990 during the invasion of Kuwait or the Iraqis released the imprisoned Badreddine and the others.
On 12 May 2016, it was said that Badreddine had been killed by an explosion causes by an airstrike near the Damascus International Airport. The cause and timing of which is unclear.

</doc>
<doc id="541872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541872" title="Rodrigo Espíndola">
Rodrigo Espíndola

Rodrigo Federico Espíndola (29 July 1989 – 13 May 2016) was an Argentine professional footballer. He played for Chacarita Juniors, Racing Club and most notably Nueva Chicago. He played as a defender. He was born in Monte Grande, Argentina. He began his career in 2009.
Espíndola died on 13 May 2016 after being shot during a robbery in Monte Grande, Argentina, aged 26.

</doc>
<doc id="541880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541880" title="Category:Marrakesh">
Category:Marrakesh


</doc>
<doc id="541881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541881" title="Jean François de Noailles, Marquis of Noailles">
Jean François de Noailles, Marquis of Noailles

Jean François de Noailles, Marquis of Noailles 28 August 1658 - 23 June 1692) was a French nobleman and was known by his title of "Marquis of Noailles" ("marquis de Noailles") He was a member of the influential House of Noailles. He was also a "Maréchal de camp" 
Noailles married Marguerite Thérèse Rouillé in 1687 and had two daughters. 

</doc>
<doc id="541883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541883" title="École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées Bretagne">
École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées Bretagne

École nationale supérieure de techniques avancées Bretagne is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. 
Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :
Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at ENSTA Bretagne. It is in Brest.
Most of the 900 graduate engineer students at ENSTA Bretagne live in dedicated residential buildings nearby research labs and metro public transports.
Research activities at ENSTA Bretagne relate to the following topics:

</doc>
<doc id="541888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541888" title="Madeleine Carroll">
Madeleine Carroll

Edith Madeleine Carroll (20 February 1906 – 2 October 1987) was an English and American actress. At the peak of her success, she (at that time) was the highest paid actress in the world. She earned just over $250,000 in 1938. She acted in movies and radio. She starred in several Alfred Hitchcock thrillers including "The 39 Steps" (1935) and "Secret Agent". She also played Gail in "Honeymoon in Bali" (1939).
Carroll was born in West Bromwich, England. She died from pancreatic cancer at age 81 in Marbella, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="541893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541893" title="Gertrude Lawrence">
Gertrude Lawrence

Gertrude Lawrence (4 July 1898 – 6 September 1952) was an English actress, singer, dancer and musical theater performer. She appeared on stage in Broadway, New York City and West End, London.
Lawrence was in the children's play "Where the Rainbow Ends". She also acted in "The King and I". She won a Tony Award for that performance. In 1928–29 she starred in the stage play "Treasure Girl".
Her best-known American movie role was in "The Glass Menagerie". She played Amanda Wingfield, who had a southern American accent.
On 16 August 1952, Lawrence fainted backstage. The doctors said she was suffering from hepatitis.
Lawrence was born in London, England. She died from abdominal and liver cancer in New York City at age 54.

</doc>
<doc id="541898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541898" title="Roll cage">
Roll cage

A roll cage is a specially designed protective frame built in (or sometimes around) the passenger compartment of a vehicle. Generally made of welded steel tubing, a roll cage is a safety feature in the event of a rollover or crash. Roll cages are used mainly in auto racing and off-road sports such as rockcrawling. The roll cage also stiffens and adds strength to the vehicle which improves handling. When the cage is constructed on the outside of a vehicle it is usually called an "exo-cage".
There are many different roll cage designs depending on the application. Different racing organizations have differing requirements and regulations for roll cages. A roll bar is a single bar behind the driver that provides some protection. Due to the lack of a protective top, some modern convertibles use a strong windshield frame which acts as a roll bar. Also, a roll hoop may be placed behind both front headrests.
A newer form of rollover protection, pioneered on the Mercedes-Benz R129 in 1989, are hidden roll hoops. When sensors detect the vehicle is about to roll over, the roll hoops quickly extend and lock in place. Cars that have this kind of "deployable rollover protection" system include the Peugeot 307 CC, Volvo C70, Mercedes-Benz SL 500, and Jaguar XK.
Roll bars are also used historically on row crop tractors, and roll cages are common as part of the cab on modern tractors.
A roll cage is not just steel tubing welded together. It must be designed to hold the weight of the vehicle should it roll over or land upside down. A basic roll bar usually has 4 points of contact with the vehicle chassis. A typical roll cage may be an 8-point or more design. In many cases a roll cage designed for a particular car or truck may be purchased from a professional roll cage manufacturer. Kits are available which are easier to transport and must be welded together inside the vehicle. 

</doc>
<doc id="541899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541899" title="Category:Back to the Future movies">
Category:Back to the Future movies


</doc>
<doc id="541903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541903" title="Moab, Utah">
Moab, Utah

Moab is a city in Grand County, in eastern Utah, United States. The population was 5,046 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat and largest city in Grand County. Moab attracts a large number of tourists every year. Many come to visit the nearby Arches and Canyonlands National Parks. The town is a popular base for mountain bikers who ride the large number of trails. It also attracts many off-roaders who come for the annual Easter Jeep Safari.
The Biblical name Moab refers to an area of land located on the eastern side of the Jordan River. Some historians believe the city in Utah came to use this name because of William Pierce, the first postmaster. He believed that the biblical Moab and this part of Utah were both "the far country". However, others believe the name has Paiute origins, referring to the word "moapa" meaning mosquito. Some of the area's early residents attempted to change the city's name because in the Christian Bible, Moabites are demeaned as being incestuous and idolatrous. One petition in 1890 had 59 signatures and requested a name change to Vina. Another effort attempted to change the name to Uvadalia. Both attempts failed.
During the period between 1829 and the early 1850s, the area around what is now Moab served as the Colorado River crossing along the Old Spanish Trail. Latter-day Saint settlers attempted to establish a trading post at the river crossing called "Elk Mountain Mission" in April 1855. The purpose was to trade with travellers attempting to cross the river. Forty men were called on this mission. There were repeated attacks by Native Americans, including one on September 23, 1855 in which James Hunt, companion to Peter Stubbs, was shot and killed. After this last attack, the fort was abandoned. A new round of settlers established a permanent settlement in 1878. Moab was incorporated as a town on December 20, 1902.
In 1883 the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad main line was built across eastern Utah. The rail line did not pass through Moab. Instead, it passed through the nearby towns of Thompson Springs and Cisco, to the north. Later, other places to cross the Colorado were constructed, such as Lee's Ferry, Navajo Bridge and Boulder Dam. These changes shifted the trade routes away from Moab. Moab farmers and merchants had to adapt from trading with passing travelers to shipping their goods to distant markets. Soon Moab's origins as one of the few natural crossings of the Colorado River were forgotten. Nevertheless, the U.S. military deemed the bridge over the Colorado River at Moab important enough to place it under guard as late as World War II.
In 1943, a former Civilian Conservation Corps camp outside Moab was used to confine Japanese American internees labeled "troublemakers" by authorities in the War Relocation Authority. The Moab Isolation Center for "noncompliant" Japanese Americans was created in response to growing resistance to WRA policies within the camps. A December 1942 clash between guards and inmates known as the "Manzanar Riot," in which two were killed and ten injured, was the final push. On January 11, 1943, the sixteen men who had initiated the two-day protests were transferred to Moab from the town jails where they had been locked up (without charges or access to hearings) after the Riot. Having closed just fifteen months prior, all 18 military-style structures of the CCC camp were in good condition. The site was converted to its new use with minimal renovation. 150 military police guarded the camp, and director Raymond Best and head of security Francis Frederick presided over the administration. On February 18, thirteen transfers from Gila River, Arizona were brought to Moab, and six days later, ten more arrived from Manzanar. An additional fifteen Tule Lake inmates were transferred on April 2. Most of these new arrivals were removed from the general camp population because of their resisting internment policies. The Moab Isolation Center remained open until April 27, when most of its inmates were taken by bus to the larger and more secure Leupp Isolation Center. In 1994, the "Dalton Wells CCC Camp/Moab Relocation Center" was added to the National Register of Historic Places. Even though no historical marker exists on the site, an information plaque at the current site entrance and a photograph on display at the Dan O'Laurie Museum in Moab mention the former isolation center.
Moab's economy was originally based on agriculture, but gradually shifted to mining. Uranium and vanadium were discovered in the area in the 1910s and 1920s. Potash and manganese came next, and then oil and natural gas were discovered. In the 1950s Moab became the so-called "Uranium Capital of the World" after geologist Charles Steen found a rich deposit of uranium ore south of the city. This discovery came at about the same time as nuclear weapons and nuclear power in the United States began to be developed. With these later discoveries Moab became prosperous.
The city population grew nearly 500% over the next few years, bringing the population to near 6,000 people. The explosion in population caused much construction of houses and schools. Charles Steen donated a great deal of money and land to create new houses and churches in Moab.
With the winding down of the Cold War, Moab's uranium boom was over. The city's population drastically went down. By the early 1980s a number of homes stood empty and nearly all of the uranium mines had closed.
In 1949, Western movie director John Ford was persuaded to use the area for the movie "Wagon Master". Ford had been using the area in Monument Valley around Mexican Hat, Utah, south of Moab. This is where he filmed "Stagecoach" there 10 years earlier in 1939. A local Moab rancher (George White) found Ford and persuaded him to come take a look at Moab. There have been numerous movies filmed in the area since then, using Arches National Park and Canyonlands National Park as backdrops.
Since the 1970s, tourism has played an increasing role in the local economy. Partly due to the John Ford movies, partly due to magazine articles, the area has become a favorite of photographers, rafters, hikers, rock climbers, and most recently mountain bikers. Moab is also an increasingly popular destination for four-wheelers as well as for BASE jumpers and those rigging highlining, who are allowed to practice their sport in the area. About 16 miles south of Moab is the "Hole N' The Rock", a 5,000 square foot 14 room home carved into a rock wall which "National Geographic" has ranked as one of the top 10 roadside attractions in the United States. Moab's population swells temporarily in the spring and summer months with the arrival of numerous people employed seasonally in the outdoor recreation and tourism industries.
In recent years Moab has experienced a surge of second-home owners. The relatively mild winters and enjoyable summers have attracted many people to build such homes throughout the area. In a situation mirroring that of other resort towns in the American West, controversy has arisen over these new residents and their houses, which in many cases remain unoccupied for most of the year. Many Moab citizens are concerned that the town is seeing changes similar to those experienced in Vail and Aspen in neighboring Colorado. These include rapidly rising property values, an increase in the cost of living, and the effects felt by local low- and middle-income workers.
"Sunset Magazine"s March 2009 issue listed Moab as one of the "20 best small towns in the West," a distinction corroborated by similar articles in other magazines.
Since 2011 Moab has hosted an LGBT Pride festival. The first festival included a march which drew more than 350 people. The second year's festival had over 600 in attendance.
Moab has an arid climate characterized by hot summers and chilly winters. Precipitation is evenly spread over the year (usually less than one inch per month). There are an average of 41 days with temperatures reaching , 109 days reaching , and 3.6 days per winter where the temperature remains at or below freezing. The highest temperature was on July 7, 1989. The lowest temperature was on January 22, 1930.
Average annual precipitation in Moab is . There are an average of 55 days annually with measurable precipitation. The wettest year was 1983 with and the driest year was 1898 with . The most precipitation in one month was in July 1918. The most precipitation in 24 hours was on July 23, 1983.
Average seasonal snowfall for 1981–2011 is . The most snow in a season was during 1914–15, but the snowiest month is December 1915 at .

</doc>
<doc id="541905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541905" title="Grand County, Utah">
Grand County, Utah

Grand County is a county located in the U.S. state of Utah. As of the 2010 census, the population was 9,225. Its county seat and largest city is Moab. The county was named for the Colorado River, which at the time of statehood was known as the Grand River. It is west from the Colorado state line.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of , of which is land and (0.3%) is water. The Green River forms the western boundary and Colorado lies on the eastern boundary. The Colorado River flows through the southeast corner. Deserts, cliffs and plateaus make up the scenery, with few settlements apart from the city of Moab, a Colorado River oasis. Arches National Park lies in the southern part of the county, just north of Moab. Also, the northernmost extension of Canyonlands National Park lies in the southwest corner of the county.
As of the census of 2000, there were 8,485 people, 3,434 households, and 2,170 families residing in the county. The population density was 2 people per square mile (1/km²). There were 4,062 housing units at an average density of 1 per square mile (0/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 92.65% White, 0.25% Black or African American, 3.85% Native American, 0.22% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 1.66% from other races, and 1.32% from two or more races. 5.55% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 3,434 households out of which 29.80% had children under the age of 18 living with them. In addition, 48.60% were married couples living together, 10.70% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.80% were non-families. 29.50% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.50% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 3.06.
In the county, the population was spread out with 26.90% under the age of 18, 8.20% from 18 to 24, 27.90% from 25 to 44, 24.50% from 45 to 64, and 12.50% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females there were 96.30 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.10 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $32,387, and the median income for a family was $39,095. Males had a median income of $31,000 versus $21,769 for females. The per capita income for the county was $17,356. About 10.90% of families and 14.80% of the population were below the poverty line, including 21.20% of those under age 18 and 8.40% of those age 65 or over.

</doc>
<doc id="541907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541907" title="Fab Morvan">
Fab Morvan

Fabrice "Fab" Morvan (born 14 May 1966) is a French singer-songwriter, dancer and model. He was half of pop duo Milli Vanilli, with Rob Pilatus. The duo sold multi-platinum albums around the world. But in the early 1990s, he and Pilatus were involved in one of the largest scandals in the history of pop music. It was revealed that neither he nor Pilatus really sang on any of Milli Vanilli's music whatsoever.
After the scandal, the duo got themselves back together as Rob & Fab, though with limited success. Morvan had a solo comeback in the 2000s, with his album "Love Revolution".
Morvan was born in Paris, France.

</doc>
<doc id="541909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541909" title="Easter Jeep Safari">
Easter Jeep Safari

The Easter Jeep Safari is an annual event hosted by the Red Rock 4-Wheelers off-road club. Four-wheelers come from all parts of the United States and other countries to challenge the rough terrain of the backcountry in the Moab, Utah area. While the title does say it is a festival of Jeeps, there are no restrictions on vehicle make or models used. However, all vehicles are expected to have high ground clearance Four-wheel drive vehicles with two-speed transfer cases. No ATV's or UTV's are allowed. The Easter Weekend safari lasts for nine days, going through Easter Sunday.
When going 4-wheeling, people can either go alone, or join up in a group. Groups usually meet up early in the day, at a certain location in the city. First waivers are signed and collected, then the drivers are given instruction and told to comply with any and all Bureau of Land Management regulations (i.e. stay on the trail, avoid walking on protected soil, etc.). Groups will then head out to the trails for the day. Once a group arrives at a trail, they will partially deflate ("air down") their tires to get better traction on sand or slick rock. Once the air down is completed they will begin through the trail and depending on the trail and the number of stops, it can take anywhere from a few hours to all day.
Many groups do radio introductions, over the CB radio, where a person (often the driver) will introduce his/her self and any passengers in the car. They may also tell if they have driven the trail before, or if it's their first time. When a group approaches a really difficult obstacle, a few will get out and act as a spotter to ensure everyone makes it up or down safely.
Groups will usually stop around noon or 1:00 P.M. for a lunch break. Drivers and passengers usually chat, take pictures, or do some work on their Jeep/4X4 vehicle. Once lunch is completed they will take off again.
Trails rank from easy to difficult (1 through 5). The classification system is the same used in skiing: Circle is Easy, Square is Moderate, and Diamond is Hard. Many trails have several obstacles to get through. Some of the most famous are "Kenny's Climb", and "White Knuckle Hill". Many involve rockcrawling.
The Event is often attended by media representatives who cover outdoor and recreation events including representatives from Jeep. The Moab variant of the Jeep Wrangler
is named after Moab, UT.
Some trails, specifically the higher difficulty ones can be dangerous for inexperienced drivers, especially if they try to go alone. A basic rule for driving off-road is to never travel alone. Traveling in groups of two or more vehicles makes it more certain at least one vehicle can get back for help. Those who do venture out into the backcountry alone should have good communications (two-way radio, mobile phone or satellite device). Inexperienced groups are advised to bring a spotter along on the more difficult trails to avoid injuries and rollovers.

</doc>
<doc id="541911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541911" title="Category:1985 comedy movies">
Category:1985 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541914" title="Category:Movies set in the 1900s">
Category:Movies set in the 1900s


</doc>
<doc id="541915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541915" title="Category:1985 drama movies">
Category:1985 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541916" title="Christy O'Connor Snr">
Christy O'Connor Snr

Christy O'Connor (21 December 1924 – 14 May 2016) was an Irish professional golfer. He was one of the leading golfers on the British and Irish circuit from the mid-1950s. He was born in Galway, Ireland. O'Connor won over 20 important British and Irish tournaments and finished in the top 10 in the Open Championship 10 times. 
In team events he played in 10 successive Ryder Cup matches and played in 15 Canada Cup/World Cup matches for Ireland, winning the Canada Cup in 1958 in partnership with Harry Bradshaw. His nephew was golfer Christy O'Connor Jnr who died in January 2016.
O'Connor Snr died at the age of 91 in a hospital in Dublin, on 14 May 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="541917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541917" title="Darwyn Cooke">
Darwyn Cooke

Darwyn Cooke (November 16, 1962 – May 14, 2016) was a Canadian comic book writer, artist, cartoonist and animator. He was born in Toronto, Ontario. He was known for his work on the comic books "Catwoman", ', "The Spirit" and '. 
Cooke died at his home in Florida after suffering from lung cancer on May 14, 2016, aged 53.

</doc>
<doc id="541919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541919" title="Unknown Worlds Entertainment">
Unknown Worlds Entertainment

Unknown Worlds Entertainment is an independent game development company. It is based in San Francisco, California. The company wants to "unite the world through play". They are best known for "Natural Selection".
Unknown Worlds was created in 2001. They started development of a free mod Natural Selection.
They decided to create the second game "Natural Selection 2". They soon after officially created Unknown Worlds Entertainment. To help raise money for "Natural Selection 2", they created "Zen of Sudoku" in November 2006. Soon after, a small group of investors backed the project after a meeting at GDC in San Francisco.
In October 2006, Max McGuire became the first employee. He became the Technical Director. A year later, they released "Decoda", a commercial debugger. The studio later switched from the Source Engine to their own engine, which was named "Evolution". It was later changed to "Spark" because "Evolution" was already being used.
In June 2008, Cory Strader was hired as an art director. In May 2009, Unknown Worlds started to accept pre-orders for the game. "Natural Selection 2" was released on October 31, 2012.
On December 17, 2013, they announced "Subnautica". Charlie Cleveland was the game director and lead gameplay. Hugh Jeremy was the producer. They decided to switch to the Unity game engine. It was released on Steam Early Access on December 16, 2014. It is planned for Xbox One. It is planned for full release in August 2016.
"Natural Selection"
"Natural Selection 2"

</doc>
<doc id="541920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541920" title="Lasse Mårtenson">
Lasse Mårtenson

Lars Anders Fredrik "Lasse" Mårtenson (24 September 1934 – 14 May 2016) was a Finnish singer, composer, actor and theater conductor. He was born in Helsinki. He performed at the Eurovision Song Contest in 1964 with the song "Laiskotellen" ("Idling").
Mårtenson died of a cerebral haemorrhage, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="541921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541921" title="Spotting (off-road)">
Spotting (off-road)

In Off-roading a Spotter is the second set of eyes to help a driver navigate difficult obstacles. Spotters are usually in front of the vehicle and use voice commands along with hand signals to indicate which way to turn the wheels and whether to go forward or backward. When the driver cannot see what is directly in front of his or her wheels, it can make the difference between getting through or damaging the vehicle.
If spectators are giving the driver signals or shouting commands or advice, the spotter should step in and take control of the situation. Otherwise the driver will not know who's advice to follow. Other signals may be used as well as long as they are agreed to by both the driver and spotter.
If a vehicle gets into a situation where one or more wheels are "hanging air" (off the ground and have no traction), the spotter may try to re-balance the vehicle. The most dangerous way is to hang on the side of the vehicle using the spotter's weight to bring it back down. Here the spotter is acting as a 'Rock surfer'. A much safer method is to use straps or ropes to bring the wheel or wheels down to earth again.
The spotter may be the agreed-on person to handle the winch line. Here again, clear signals between the spotter and driver need to be maintained in order to keep everyone safe. 

</doc>
<doc id="541922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541922" title="Category:1989 drama movies">
Category:1989 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541923" title="Monomial">
Monomial

In mathematics, a monomial is a polynomial which has only one term. A monomial cannot have a variable for a denominator. 

</doc>
<doc id="541941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541941" title="Category:1990 drama movies">
Category:1990 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541943" title="2016 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A - Results of first round">
2016 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A - Results of first round

This is the Results of the first round of 2016 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

</doc>
<doc id="541945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541945" title="Category:1989 comedy movies">
Category:1989 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541947" title="Category:1989 romance movies">
Category:1989 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="541949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541949" title="Category:1990 comedy movies">
Category:1990 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541950" title="Category:1990 romance movies">
Category:1990 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="541951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541951" title="Category:1992 comedy movies">
Category:1992 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541953" title="Category:1992 drama movies">
Category:1992 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541956" title="Category:American gangster movies">
Category:American gangster movies


</doc>
<doc id="541957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541957" title="Category:1993 crime movies">
Category:1993 crime movies


</doc>
<doc id="541959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541959" title="Category:1993 drama movies">
Category:1993 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541960" title="Category:1992 crime movies">
Category:1992 crime movies


</doc>
<doc id="541963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541963" title="Category:1995 drama movies">
Category:1995 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="541965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541965" title="Saruê">
Saruê

Saruê is a mammal animal, of the skunk family, existing in northeastern Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="541966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541966" title="Category:Former administrative regions of France">
Category:Former administrative regions of France


</doc>
<doc id="541968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541968" title="Category:1995 comedy movies">
Category:1995 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="541969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541969" title="Category:1995 romance movies">
Category:1995 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="541970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541970" title="Category:1995 crime movies">
Category:1995 crime movies


</doc>
<doc id="541971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541971" title="Category:Crime movies by year">
Category:Crime movies by year


</doc>
<doc id="541975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541975" title="Category:Grand Est">
Category:Grand Est


</doc>
<doc id="541977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541977" title="Category:Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes">
Category:Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes


</doc>
<doc id="541978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541978" title="Category:2016 establishments">
Category:2016 establishments


</doc>
<doc id="541979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541979" title="Category:Bourgogne-Franche-Comté">
Category:Bourgogne-Franche-Comté


</doc>
<doc id="541980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541980" title="Category:Occitanie">
Category:Occitanie


</doc>
<doc id="541983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541983" title="Category:Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes">
Category:Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes


</doc>
<doc id="541984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541984" title="Category:Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté">
Category:Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté


</doc>
<doc id="541985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541985" title="Category:Departments in Occitanie">
Category:Departments in Occitanie


</doc>
<doc id="541987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541987" title="Category:Departments in Grand Est">
Category:Departments in Grand Est


</doc>
<doc id="541990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541990" title="Category:Departments in Normandy">
Category:Departments in Normandy


</doc>
<doc id="541991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541991" title="Category:Communes in Grand Est">
Category:Communes in Grand Est


</doc>
<doc id="541994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541994" title="Category:Communes in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes">
Category:Communes in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes


</doc>
<doc id="541995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541995" title="Category:Communes in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté">
Category:Communes in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté


</doc>
<doc id="541998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541998" title="Category:Communes in Occitanie">
Category:Communes in Occitanie


</doc>
<doc id="542000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542000" title="Category:Communes in Normandy">
Category:Communes in Normandy


</doc>
<doc id="542001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542001" title="Category:People from Grand Est">
Category:People from Grand Est


</doc>
<doc id="542004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542004" title="Category:People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes">
Category:People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes


</doc>
<doc id="542005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542005" title="Category:People from Occitanie">
Category:People from Occitanie


</doc>
<doc id="542008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542008" title="Category:People from Normandy">
Category:People from Normandy


</doc>
<doc id="542012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542012" title="Category:Recipients of the Order of the Holy Spirit">
Category:Recipients of the Order of the Holy Spirit


</doc>
<doc id="542017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542017" title="Cho Bong-am">
Cho Bong-am

Cho Bong-am(조봉암;曺奉岩, 1898 - 1959) was a South Korean independence activist and politician. He was the first Agriculture Minister of South Korea, 1948 - 1949.

</doc>
<doc id="542020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542020" title="Category:Articles needing additional references from May 2016">
Category:Articles needing additional references from May 2016


</doc>
<doc id="542021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542021" title="Nouvelle-Aquitaine">
Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Nouvelle-Aquitaine is an administrative region of France. It was created in 2016. It was created by combining the former regions of Aquitaine, Limousin, and Poitou-Charentes.
"Aquitaine-Limousin-Poitou-Charentes" was the temporary name for the region.

</doc>
<doc id="542022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542022" title="Grand Est">
Grand Est

Grand Est is an administrative region of France. It was created in 2016. It was created by combining the former regions of Alsace, Champagne-Ardenne, and Lorraine.
"Alsace-Champagne-Ardenne-Lorraine" was the temporary name for the region.

</doc>
<doc id="542023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542023" title="Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes">
Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes is an administrative region of France. It was created in 2016. It was created by combining the former regions of Auvergne and Rhône-Alpes.
"Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes" is a temporary name for the region. A permanent name will be decided by 1 October 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="542024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542024" title="Bourgogne-Franche-Comté">
Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Bourgogne-Franche-Comté is an administrative region of France. It was created in 2016. It was created by combining the former regions of Bourgogne and Franche-Comté.
"Bourgogne-Franche-Comté" is a temporary name for the region. A permanent name will be decided by 1 October 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="542025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542025" title="Occitanie">
Occitanie

The name Occitania () was approved as the new name of the region on 28 September 2016, effective 30 September 2016.
The new Occitania Region should not be confused with the wider cultural entity of Occitania, of which the new administrative region is part.
The Occitanie region is the third largest region of France, after Nouvelle-Aquitaine and French Guiana, and the second of Metropolitan France with an area of . It is in southern France (the "Midi") and borders to the south with Spain and Andorra; it also borders three French regions: Nouvelle-Aquitaine to the west, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes to the north, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur to the east. The Mediterranean Sea is to the southeast.
Its capital, Toulouse, is at to the southwest of Paris, the national capital, at to the west of Marseille, at fto the southeast of Bordeaux and at to the north of Barcelona (Spain).
There are two main drainage basin in the region; some rivers in those basins are:
The Pic Vignemale (), at , is the highest mountain of the Occitanie region; it is on the border with Spain. It is in the Pyrénées National Park.
The highest point of the different departments of the Occitanie region are:
The Occitanie region is formed by 13 departments:
"Arr." = Arrondissements          "Cant." = Cantons          "Comm." = Communes
, the Occitanie region had a population of 5,730,753, for a population density of inhabitants/km.
The important cities with more than 20,000 inhabitans (2014) in the region are:

</doc>
<doc id="542026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542026" title="Hauts-de-France">
Hauts-de-France

Hauts-de-France is an administrative region of France. It was created in 2016. It was created by combining the former regions of Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Picardy.
"Nord-Pas-de-Calais-Picardy" was the temporary name for the region.

</doc>
<doc id="542035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542035" title="Category:2016 in entertainment">
Category:2016 in entertainment


</doc>
<doc id="542041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542041" title="Jamala">
Jamala

Jamala born Susana Dzjamaladinova born 27 August 1983 is a Ukrainian singer that won the Eurovision Song Contest 2016 with the song "1944". 
On 14 May 2016, Jamala won the competition with 534 points.
Her song, "1944" is about the deportation of the Crimean Tatars in 1944. It is also about her great-grandmother, who lost her daughter while being deported to Central Asia. 

</doc>
<doc id="542047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542047" title="Category:Movies produced by John Hughes">
Category:Movies produced by John Hughes


</doc>
<doc id="542048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542048" title="Category:John Hughes">
Category:John Hughes


</doc>
<doc id="542049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542049" title="Category:Screenplays by John Hughes">
Category:Screenplays by John Hughes


</doc>
<doc id="542059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542059" title="Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Weather Center (1998-2009)">
Wikipedia:Requests for deletion/Requests/2016/Weather Center (1998-2009)


</doc>
<doc id="542060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542060" title="World War I Memorial Cemetery (Russia)">
World War I Memorial Cemetery (Russia)

The Memorial Park Complex of the Heroes of the First World War is a Cemetery in Moscow, Russia. The cemetery opened in 1915 but was demolished during the Soviet period in 1932. In 2004 the new memorial park was built on the land of the former cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="542073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542073" title="Category:Former regional capitals in France">
Category:Former regional capitals in France


</doc>
<doc id="542076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542076" title="Madeleine LeBeau">
Madeleine LeBeau

Marie Madeleine Berthe LeBeau (10 June 1923 – 1 May 2016) was a French movie actress. She was known for her roles in "Hold Back the Dawn", "Gentleman Jim", "Casablanca", "Paris After Dark", and "8½".
LeBeau died on 1 May 2016 in Estepona, Spain, after breaking her femur in a fall, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="542079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542079" title="Category:1990 crime movies">
Category:1990 crime movies


</doc>
<doc id="542080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542080" title="Julius La Rosa">
Julius La Rosa

Julius La Rosa (January 2, 1930 – May 12, 2016) was an American traditional pop music singer. La Rosa was born in Brooklyn, New York. He worked in both radio and television beginning in the 1950s. He was known for his songs "Anywhere I Wander", "Manhattan", and "Eh, Cumpari". 
LaRosa died of natural causes on May 12, 2016 at his home in Crivitz, Wisconsin, aged 86.

</doc>
<doc id="542082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542082" title="Balázs Birtalan">
Balázs Birtalan

Balázs Birtalan (October 12, 1969. – May 14, 2016) was a Hungarian author, poet, publicist, psychotherapist and activist. He was mostly known for his activism in the gay Christian movement in Hungary. He was the son of the poet Ferenc Birtalan. He was born in Budapest. He was gay.
Birtalan died on May 14, 2016, aged 46.

</doc>
<doc id="542087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542087" title="Baba Hardev Singh">
Baba Hardev Singh

Baba Hardev Singh (also known as Nirankari Baba; 23 February 1954 – 13 May 2016) was an Indian spiritual guru. He was the chief leader of the Sant Nirankari Mission from 1980 until his death in 2016. He was born in Delhi. 
Singh died on 13 May 2016 in a car accident near Montreal, Canada, aged 62.

</doc>
<doc id="542093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542093" title="Tony Barrow">
Tony Barrow

Anthony F. J. "Tony" Barrow (11 May 1936 – 14 May 2016) was an English press officer. He worked with the Beatles between 1962 and 1968. He created the phrase "the Fab Four", first using it in an early press release. He was born in Crosby, Lancashire.
Barrow died on 14 May 2016 at his home in Morecambe, Lancashire, aged 80.

</doc>
<doc id="542096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542096" title="Monteagle Stearns">
Monteagle Stearns

Monteagle "Monty" Stearns (December 5, 1924 – May 14, 2016) was an American diplomat. He was the former Ambassador to Côte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast) (1976–79) and Greece (1981–85). He worked for Presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. Stearns was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He was a member of the American Academy of Diplomacy and Council on Foreign Relations. 
Stearns died on May 14, 2016 in Belmont, Massachusetts at the age of 91.

</doc>
<doc id="542099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542099" title="Category:1986 drama movies">
Category:1986 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="542100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542100" title="Category:1986 romance movies">
Category:1986 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="542102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542102" title="Category:BDSM in movies">
Category:BDSM in movies


</doc>
<doc id="542104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542104" title="Category:1986 comedy movies">
Category:1986 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="542110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542110" title="Thank You (Meghan Trainor album)">
Thank You (Meghan Trainor album)

Thank You is the second major-label studio album by American singer-songwriter Meghan Trainor. The album was released exclusively on Apple Music on May 6, 2016, and was fully released on May 13, 2016, through Epic Records.

</doc>
<doc id="542113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542113" title="Francesco Filippini">
Francesco Filippini

Francesco Filippini (18 September 1853 – 6 March 1895) was an Italian painter from Lombardy. Francesco Filippini has been considered a historic painter with a great international importance since 1956.
Filippini was born in Brescia, in Lombardy in northern Italy, on 18 September 1853, into a poor family. His father Lorenzo was a carpenter, his mother Silvia Signoria a seamstress. He was soon sent to work, first as a apprentice in a pastry-shop "Pasticceria Chiappa". He reveals his artistic talent from an early age. At thirteen, in his spare time by heart, he paints with coal Pastry firewood, on wrapping paper, the portraits of the bakery owner and his family. Later, thanks to its beautiful calligraphy, start to work as a clerk to a notary public.
Filippini attended the school of drawing at the Pinacoteca Tosio; from 1872 he received a grant from the city council to continue these studies. In 1875 he received an allowance to study under Giuseppe Bertini in Milan. In 1879 another grant allowed him to travel to Paris to visit the Salon.
Filippini exhibited at the annual shows of the Accademia di Belle Arti di Brera in Milan from 1879, and from 1880 lived in that city. He made his living by teaching, both in schools and privately. He was made an honorary member of the Accademia di Brera in 1878.
In October 1875, together with a friend and colleague Luigi Lombardi, he received an annual stipend of 750 italian Lire and entered Brera Academy of Arts in Milan, where he studied under Giuseppe Bertini. During his studies, Francesco Filippini became close friends with Leonardo Bistolfi and Oreste Silvestri. Together, they become aware of new artistic movements, in particular with Tranquillo Cremona, founder of Scapigliatura style, which has had a great influence on his future work. During this time he wrote mainly portraits and paintings on historical subjects.
In 1876 in Brescia with the painting "Nude in Art Studio" () Francesco Filippini won the competition Camillo Brozzoni Prize. In 1878 he won again this competition with a new painting "Nude in Art Studio" (), and received a three-year scholarship of 1,500 lire for an internship in the workshops of recognized painters in Rome and Paris.
In the summer of 1879, together with the artists Mosè Bianchi, Eugenio Gignous, Roberto Venturi, Francesco Filippini visited the annual exhibition of the Grand Salon of the Louvre in Paris. He was not impressed with the research of impressionist and he turned out to be close to the style of late romanticism.
Back in Milan, in September 1879, he presented to the competition Camillo Brozzoni his new job, "Fulvia says Cicero on Catiline conspiracy" (). The picture was painted by him under the strong influence of art of the same Tranquillo Cremona. For this reason, some members of the jury announced the work is not mature enough and removed the canvas from the competition. Very disappointed he decided to leave the permanently occupation of painting and tried to enter in the service of the financial police, which was not accepted due to health problems.
Nevertheless, he continued to participate at the annual shows exhibition of the Accademia di Belle Arti di Brera. In 1880, the city of Brescia acquired his painting "The Death of Caligula" (). In November of the same year Francesco Filippini won again the competition Camillo Brozzoni Price, with the painting "Fra Angelico on his knees writes image of the Mother of God" (), or "The cell blessed Angelica" (). The location of the work is unknown.
The Painter signing works in the bottom right, in italics, usually in red and embossed.
In 1880 the artist moved permanently to Milan where he start to living with giving private lessons in drawing and teaching at the convent school. In the same year he joined the movement Scapigliatura, whose members were young writers, composers and artists. His paintings of this period are written in the style of naturalism of lombardy style. This is primarily landscapes, scenes from the life of the villagers, and, rarely, portraits. In 1881, Francesco Filippini gave hometown is one of his most famous paintings "Evening in Val Trompia" (1881) (), now kept in the Art and History Municipal Museum of Brescia. This paint won another competition Camillo Brozzoni in 1881.
His works are in museums of Brera Academy, Galleria d'Arte Moderna (Milan), Art collection of Fondazione Cariplo, Milan, Museo di Santa Giulia, Brescia, Civici Musei d'Arte e storia, Brescia, Pinacoteca Tosio Martinengo, Brescia.
When young, Filipinni painted was mostly religious or historical subjects, as well as some portraits. In later life he painted mostly landscapes – of the Apennines, of Pegli, of Porto Valtravaglia, of the Val Camonica or of the Valle Seriana – or seascapes in Chioggia, Genova, Naples or Venice. His work shows the influence of the Scapigliatura painter Tranquillo Cremona.

</doc>
<doc id="542114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542114" title="Goosebumps (movie)">
Goosebumps (movie)

Goosebumps is a 2015 American fantasy horror comedy movie. It was based on the children's book series of the same name by R.L. Stine. It is directed by Rob Letterman and produced by Deborah Forte and Neal H. Moritz. It was written by Darren Lemke with music by Danny Elfman. It was made by Columbia Pictures and Sony Animated Pictures.
The movie stars Jack Black, Dylan Minnette, Odeya Rush, Amy Ryan, Halston Sage, Ryan Lee, and Jillian Bell. It was filmed in Atlanta, Georgia. The movie is set in present-day Delaware. It was released on October 16, 2015 to mostly positive reviews. It earned $156 million.
It received nominations for the Las Vegas Film Critics Society for Best Family Film and the Visual Effects Society for Outstanding Visual Effects in a Special Venue Project.
On September 2, 2015, it was reported that a sequel is in the works.

</doc>
<doc id="542130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542130" title="McNeese State University">
McNeese State University

McNeese State University is a university in Lake Charles, Louisiana, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="542133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542133" title="Charles Wheeler (politician)">
Charles Wheeler (politician)

Charles Bertan Wheeler, Jr. (born August 10, 1926) is an American politician. He is a former Missouri state senator and a former mayor of Kansas City, Missouri from 1971 to 1979, in addition to having held other elected offices.
On March 28, 2016, Wheeler filed to for Governor.

</doc>
<doc id="542134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542134" title="Gilberto Gil">
Gilberto Gil

Gilberto Passos Gil Moreira (born 26 June 1942), better known as Gilberto Gil ( or ), is a Brazilian singer, guitarist, and songwriter. He is known for both his musical innovation and political commitment. 
From 2003 to 2008, he served as Brazil's Minister of Culture.

</doc>
<doc id="542135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542135" title="Rick MacLeish">
Rick MacLeish

Richard George "Rick" MacLeish (January 3, 1950 – May 30, 2016) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward.
He played 14 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Philadelphia Flyers, Hartford Whalers, Pittsburgh Penguins, and Detroit Red Wings. He played 12 seasons in Philadelphia, winning two Stanley Cups with the Flyers in 1974 and 1975.
On May 11, 2016, MacLeish was hospitalized for meningitis. He died at a hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from kidney and liver failure as a result of meningitis on May 30, 2016, aged 66.

</doc>
<doc id="542136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542136" title="Juliette Gréco">
Juliette Gréco

Juliette Gréco (; born 7 February 1927) is a French actress and popular chanson singer. 
In 1949, she began working with composer Miles Davis. That same year, she began a new singing career with a number of well-known French writers writing lyrics; Raymond Queneau's "Si tu t’imagines" was one of her earliest songs to become popular.
In the late 1960s she featured in the TV serial "Belphegor, Phantom of the Louvre".

</doc>
<doc id="542137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542137" title="Gullah">
Gullah

The Gullah (also called Geechee) are the descendants of African slaves who lived in the Lowcountry regions of Georgia and South Carolina. They lived on the mainland and on the Sea Islands.
The Gullah region used to include what is now Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina, but today the Gullah area is only in Georgia and South Carolina.
The Gullah were able to keep parts of their African culture, but were also influenced by North American culture. The Gullah people speak a creole language that is based on English, but has many African loanwords.
The name "Gullah" may come from Angola, where the ancestors of some Gullah people likely came from. They created a new culture from the numerous African peoples brought into Charleston and South Carolina. Other scholars think that it came from the name of other ethnic groups in Africa.
Along the western coast of Africa, the people had cultivated African rice for 3,000 years. When British colonial planters discovered that rice would grow in the American South, they wanted enslaved Africans from this region. Africans were taken as slaves from the Western region of Africa (in what is today Sierra Leone), transported to the Americas, and were traded in Charlestowne, South Carolina. These African farmers brought their skills for farming and irrigation.
According to British historian P.E.H. Hair, Gullah culture had elements of many different African cultures. The Gullah people were able to keep much of their African culture because the climate and geography of this area were similar to Africa, and because slaves lived in large groups and had little interaction with whites.
The slaves also brought the diseases malaria and yellow fever. These diseases spread to English and European settlers because of the subtropical climate, and became endemic in the region. Africans had more immunity to these diseases. Many white planters left the area during seasons when the diseases were more common. The European or African "rice drivers", or overseers, were left in charge of the plantations.
In the U.S. Civil War, white planters on the Sea Islands were afraid of an invasion by US naval forces. They left their plantations and went to the mainland. When Union forces arrived on the Sea Islands in 1861, the Gullah people wanted freedom. Many Gullahs served in the Union Army. The Sea Islands were the first place in the South where slaves were freed. Long before the end of the War, Unitarian missionaries came to start schools for the newly freed slaves.
After the Civil War ended, the Gullah became more isolated from the outside world. This happened because the rice planters on the mainland left their farms and moved away from the area. The Gullahs continued to practice their traditional culture with little influence from the outside world until the 20th century.
In 2006, the U.S. Congress passed the "Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Act". This act will provide $10 million over 10 years to preserve Gullah historic sites. The Heritage Corridor will extend from southern North Carolina to northern Florida.
The Gullah people still have their traditional culture. Their traditions have survived in the Lowcountry mainland and on the Sea Islands, and also in urban areas such as Charleston and Savannah, Georgia. Gullah people who have moved far away have also preserved their traditions. In the summer, they usually send their children back to rural communities in South Carolina and Georgia, where they live with grandparents, uncles, and aunts.
The characters in Joel Chandler Harris' Uncle Remus stories speak in a Deep South Gullah dialect.

</doc>
<doc id="542142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542142" title="Sea Islands">
Sea Islands

The Sea Islands are a chain of tidal and barrier islands on the Southeastern Atlantic Ocean coast of the United States. 
There are over a hundred of them. They are between the mouths of the Santee and St. Johns Rivers along the coast of the US states of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
Barrier islands like these may change during storms. They absorb energy and protect the coastlines. Indirectly, they may help to create areas of protected waters where wetlands may flourish.

</doc>
<doc id="542148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542148" title="Earth-like planet">
Earth-like planet

Earth-like planet is used as a synonym for one 0r more of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="542160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542160" title="Molex connector">
Molex connector

A Molex connector is a standard connector, which is used on electronic circuit boards. It is also used in many Personal computers, where it ofen transmits power. It is a pin and socket design. Originally, these connectors where manufactured by the ocmpany with the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="542170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542170" title="TurboGrafx-16">
TurboGrafx-16

The TurboGrafx 16 was a games console that was originally released on 30 October 1987 in Japan and 29 August 1989 in North America. It was also know as PC Engine in some areas of the world. It was created by Hudson Soft and NEC. It was the first game console ever to have a CD add on. It competed with the SNES and Sega Genesis.

</doc>
<doc id="542172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542172" title="Category:Meghan Trainor">
Category:Meghan Trainor


</doc>
<doc id="542181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542181" title="Marina Beach">
Marina Beach

Marina Beach is a natural beach in Chennai, Tamil Nadu along the Bay of Bengal sea. The beach is the first longest beach in India and the second longest in the world. The length of the beach is 13 km.
It is a renowned beach because the memorial of the two chief ministers M.G.Ramachandran and C.N.Annadurai. It is the most crowded beach in the country. More than 10,000 to 25,000 visitors visit the beach on weekdays while more than 50,000 visitors visit the beach during holidays.
There are many statues erected in the beach like the statues of Triumph of Labour, Robert Caldwell, Kambar, Ilango Adigal, Kannagi, Bharathiyar, Bharathidasan etc.

</doc>
<doc id="542197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542197" title="List of works by Giambattista Pittoni">
List of works by Giambattista Pittoni

The following is a list of paintings by Italian Rococo painter Giambattista Pittoni, one of the most important artist of the eighteenth century in Europe.
Giambattista Pittoni lists 247 extant and 117 lost, missing or destroyed works. Some of his works are listed below.
The artist's works have never signed and dated.

</doc>
<doc id="542198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542198" title="Vipsania Agrippina">
Vipsania Agrippina

Vipsania Agrippina (36 BC – 20 AD) was the daughter of Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa from his first wife Caecilia Attica. Octavian and her father betrothed her to Tiberius before her first birthday. In about 19 BC she married Tiberius. Their son Drusus Julius Caesar was born in 14 BC.
Her father Agrippa died in March 12 BC. He was then married to his third wife, Julia the Elder, daughter of Augustus. Augustus forced Tiberius to divorce Vipsania and marry Julia. Tiberius reportedly loved Vipsania and disapproved of Julia. Vipsania was pregnant with a second child in 12/11 when the couple divorced. The second child did not survive.
Tiberius divorced Vipsania against his will in 11 BC, according to Suetonius. He always regretted this. On one occasion Tiberius caught sight of Vipsania and followed her with "an intent and tearful gaze". Precautions were taken to avoid further embarrassing meetings with her.
Vipsania then married the Senator Gaius Asinius Gallus Saloninus. They had a number of children, mostly sons. Their eldest son Gaius was put to death by Messalina, the infamous third wife of the Emperor Claudius.

</doc>
<doc id="542199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542199" title="Citizens band radio">
Citizens band radio

Citizens band radio (also known as CB radio) is, in many countries, a system of short-distance radio communications between individuals on a selection of 40 channels within the 27 MHz (11 m) band. Citizens band not the same as the Amateur Radio Service ("ham" radio) which has a much longer range. In many countries, CB operation does not require a license to operate. It may be used for business or personal communications. Like many other two-way radio services, citizens band channels are shared by many users. Only one station may transmit at a time. All other stations must listen and wait for the shared channel to be available. It is customary for stations waiting to use a shared channel to broadcast the single word "break" (or "breaker") during a lull in the conversation. This lets other people using the channel know that others are waiting. In the US, channel 19 is most often used by truckers. Channel 9 is reserved for emergencies.
The citizens band radio service originated in the United States as one of several personal radio services regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). These services began in 1945 to permit citizens a radio band for personal communication. In 1948, the original CB radios were designed for operation on the 460–470 MHz UHF band. There were two classes of CB radio: "A" and "B". Class B radios had simpler technical requirements, and were limited to a smaller frequency range. Al Gross established the Citizens Radio Corporation during the late 1940s to manufacture Class B handhelds for the general public. In the 1960s it became popular with taxicab companies to communicate with their drivers. In the 1970s it became popular with people and truckers using it in their vehicles. The popularity was sparked by CB radios and the jargon used in several movies. Truckers in particular began using it to warn other truckers of police speedtraps. 
When CB radios first started a series of "10 codes" were used. This was due to the early CB radios need to warm up before use. The 10 codes were used as a shortcut to longer standard messages. A few of the more often used codes are:
Today it remains popular with truck drivers. It is used in rural areas by a wide variety of people and businesses where cellphone service is weak or unreliable. CB radios are also used by off-roaders to communicate between drivers in a group of four-wheel drive vehicles. It is used to warn drivers of various trail conditions, hazards, and delays.
CB radio is used as a system of short-distance communications between people in many countries. Nearly all use a system of 40 channels in the 27 megahertz or 11 meter band. 

</doc>
<doc id="542214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542214" title="Tread Lightly!">
Tread Lightly!

Tread Lightly! is a non-profit organization in the United States with the mission of responsible outdoor use with the use of "ethics, education and stewardship". Tread Lightly! is supported by individuals, small business and corporations. As off-roading with vehicles such as ATVs, off-highway motorcycles, snowmobiles and four-wheel drives like Jeeps and pickup trucks is becoming more and more popular, it poses more of a threat to the natural resources. Off-road vehicles are only a part of the problem that Tread Lightly! addresses. All outdoor recreation poses a threat to the ecosystem. People who engage in activities such as camping, hiking, fishing and hunting need to be careful in the outdoors so as not to destroy it for others. 
Tread Lightly! was started by the United States Forest Service in 1985 as a public awareness program. In 1990, through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Tread Lightly! became a nonprofit organization. Today, Tread Lightly! is recognized as an important non-political organization. 
Land Rover’s inaugural Great Divide Expedition in the fall of 1989 helped launch Tread Lightly! as a non-profit focused on supporting and encouraging stewardship on America’s lands and waterways. Since the Great Divide Expedition, Tread Lightly! and partners like Land Rover have built and led a national movement to protect and enhance recreation access and opportunities. They do this by promoting outdoor ethics to heighten awareness. To mark the 25 year anniversary of The Great Divide Expedition, Tread Lightly! and Land Rover reunited for the 2014 Great Divide Expedition. Land Rover auctioned off a fully restored 1990 Range Rover Great Divide replica as well as the opportunity to be a guest of Land Rover on a nine-day adventure. The auction raised more than $55,000 for Tread Lightly!, the largest single donation in the nonprofit's history.
The organization is "managed and financed by companies like Ford and Toyota." It leads awareness workshops and restores trails. The "Washington Times" noted in 2001 that "most manufacturers of off-highway vehicles — including Ford, GM, Jeep, Land Rover, Subaru and Toyota are active in this effort."
The organization has also worked with auto manufacturers to try to change the off-road images used in TV commercials. Toyota, Nissan and Mercedes-Benz have asked Tread Lightly to review their ads. At least one company cancelled a TV spot the organization didn't like.
Tread Lightly! "offers extensive online tips and guidelines on being more responsible in hiking, camping, boating, hunting, horseback riding, ATVs and more," the "Deseret News" has reported.
Some off-highway enthusiasts, though, according to the "New York Times," have been opposed to the concept, with Brad Lark, the publisher of the website extreme4x4.com, calling Tread Lightly! "a veiled form of extreme environmentalism." An anonymous writer on offroad.com was quoted as saying: "I don't Tread Lightly. I trample. From tree-huggers to their totalitarian signage that follows. I trample all in the path of freedom's future." Brad Ullrich, the site's land-use editor, described the column as "tongue-in-cheek."

</doc>
<doc id="542217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542217" title="Michał Kubiak">
Michał Kubiak

Michał Kubiak (born 23 February 1988) is a Polish volleyball player, a member of Polish national team and Turkish club Halkbank Ankara, a participant of the Olympic Games (London 2012), 2014 World Champion, a gold medalist of the 2012 World League, silver medalist of the 2011 World Cup, bronze medalist of the 2011 European Championship and the 2011 World League, 2016 Turkish Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="542227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542227" title="Category:Bruges">
Category:Bruges


</doc>
<doc id="542231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542231" title="Category:2008 drama movies">
Category:2008 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="542233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542233" title="Category:2008 comedy movies">
Category:2008 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="542236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542236" title="Category:2008 crime movies">
Category:2008 crime movies


</doc>
<doc id="542240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542240" title="Category:2008 romance movies">
Category:2008 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="542241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542241" title="Category:Movies directed by Kevin Smith">
Category:Movies directed by Kevin Smith


</doc>
<doc id="542242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542242" title="Category:Screenplays by Kevin Smith">
Category:Screenplays by Kevin Smith


</doc>
<doc id="542243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542243" title="Category:Kevin Smith">
Category:Kevin Smith


</doc>
<doc id="542246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542246" title="Cauby Peixoto">
Cauby Peixoto

Cauby Peixoto (10 February 1931 – 15 May 2016) was a Brazilian singer, and actor. His career lasted from the late 1940s until his death in 2016. He is known for his deep voice and hairstyles. His genres include jazz and soft rock.
Peixoto was known for his album "Maxximum". He also appeared in movies. He was known for his appearance as a singer in the movie "Com Água na". 
He had a brief career in the United States in the 1950s, where he presented under the pseudonyms Ron Coby or Coby Dijon.
Peixoto was born in Niterói, Rio de Janeiro. He studied at a Salesian school in Niteroi. Peixoto died in São Paulo, São Paulo from pneumonia on 15 May 2016, aged 85.
Cauby was named by "Time" and "Life" magazines as the Brazilian Elvis Presley.

</doc>
<doc id="542247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542247" title="Category:2004 romance movies">
Category:2004 romance movies


</doc>
<doc id="542248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542248" title="Category:2004 comedy movies">
Category:2004 comedy movies


</doc>
<doc id="542249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542249" title="Can't Stop the Feeling!">
Can't Stop the Feeling!

"Can't Stop the Feeling!" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Justin Timberlake. It was on the soundtrack to the DreamWorks Animation movie, "Trolls". The song entered at number one on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. It reached the top five in the UK and Australia. The song was Timberlake's comeback single after his son, Silas Randall Timberlake, was born to Justin and his wife, actress Jessica Biel.

</doc>
<doc id="542250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542250" title="Category:2004 drama movies">
Category:2004 drama movies


</doc>
<doc id="542256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542256" title="Oya Aydoğan">
Oya Aydoğan

Oya Aydoğan (10 February 1957 – 15 May 2016) was a Turkish actress, model and television presenter. She was the winner of the Ses Magazine Movie Actress Contest in 1976. Her career began in 1976 with the movie "Deli Şahin". She was born in Erzincan, Turkey.
She was a Alevi Islam. She retired in 2015.
She suffered an aortic aneurysm on 7 May 2016, before the Mother's Day. She died on 15 May 2016 in a hospital in Istanbul, aged 59.

</doc>
<doc id="542258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542258" title="Bobby Freeman (politician)">
Bobby Freeman (politician)

Robert Louis "Bobby" Freeman (April 27, 1934 – May 16, 2016) was an American attorney and politician. He was born in Plaquemine, Louisiana. He was the Democratic lieutenant governor of the U.S. state of Louisiana from 1980 to 1988. He worked with governor Edwin Edwards. Before becoming a politician, Freeman was an amateur boxer.
Freeman died at a hospital in Baton Rouge, Louisiana from an aneurysm on May 16, 2016, aged 82.

</doc>
<doc id="542259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542259" title="Romaldo Giurgola">
Romaldo Giurgola

Romaldo (Aldo) Giurgola AO (2 September 1920 – 16 May 2016) was an Italian-Australian academic, architect, professor and author. Giurgola was born in Rome. He was a partner in the Philadelphia firm Mitchell/Giurgola Architects from 1958 until his death in 2016. He became an Australian citizen in 2000. He was known for designing the Parliament House in Canberra.
Giurgola died in Canberra, Australia on 16 May 2016, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="542266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542266" title="Modena Volleyball Club">
Modena Volleyball Club

Modena Volley is a professional volleyball team based in Modena, Italy. It has played in the highest level of the Italian Volleyball League since 1968. It is the most successful Italian club, having won the national league twelve times and the national cup as well: Modena is the current holder of both titles. The club is one of the most prominent and prestigious in Europe. It achieved thirteen European trophies including four CEV Champions League. The main sponsor of the club is DHL Express.

</doc>
<doc id="542295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542295" title="Category:Polish volleyball players">
Category:Polish volleyball players


</doc>
<doc id="542296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542296" title="Category:Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics">
Category:Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics


</doc>
<doc id="542305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542305" title="Category:Justin Timberlake">
Category:Justin Timberlake


</doc>
<doc id="542306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542306" title="Barry Bostwick">
Barry Bostwick

Barry Knapp Bostwick (born February 24, 1945) is an American actor, voice artist, and comedian, best known for portraying Brad Majors in "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" (1975). He replaced Peter Scolari as Mr. Tyler in "What I Like About You", as well as portraying Mayor Randall Winston in "Spin City" and the father of the President in "Scandal". Bostwick has also had considerable success in musical theater. He voiced Thunderbolt in "".

</doc>
<doc id="542309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542309" title="Category:Justin Timberlake albums">
Category:Justin Timberlake albums


</doc>
<doc id="542312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542312" title="Star chart">
Star chart

A star chart is a graphic device or diagram which shows the night sky as seen from Earth. They are one of the oldest types of written or carved communication. There is a claim for a prehistoric carving as the first known star chart, but the evidence is not clear.
Star charts occur in Babylonian and Ancient Egyptian wall decorations and writing. In the ancient world, knowledge was needed for practical reasons and for religious reasons. Early star charts were used for all these purposes. Even today, they are used for both astronomy and astrology. In the renaissance, with its interest in ideas, hundreds of books were printed with star charts and other diagrams.
The key point for scientific charts is the use of data taken from observations, and listed in tables or databases. Historically, the first tables were in Ptolemy's "Almagest" (~AD 150). It has the last known star table from antiquity, with 1,028 stars.

</doc>
<doc id="542314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542314" title="Category:1960s in Italy">
Category:1960s in Italy


</doc>
<doc id="542315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542315" title="Category:1960s in Europe">
Category:1960s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="542318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542318" title="Category:1960s by country">
Category:1960s by country


</doc>
<doc id="542319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542319" title="Category:1970s in Europe">
Category:1970s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="542322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542322" title="Category:1920s in Europe">
Category:1920s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="542330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542330" title="Category:1950s in Europe">
Category:1950s in Europe


</doc>
<doc id="542350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542350" title="Kevin Downes">
Kevin Downes

Kevin Downes (born 21 septembre 1972) is an American film actor, writer, producer and director. Downes grew up in Visalia, California, three hours north of Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="542354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542354" title="Ojo">
Ojo

Ojo is a town and local government area located in Lagos State, Nigeria. The town is traditionally ruled by the "Olojo of Ojo". Alaba International Market and Lagos State University are located there.

</doc>
<doc id="542356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542356" title="Lagos State University">
Lagos State University

Lagos State University, most times called LASU, is an higher institution located in Ojo, Lagos State. The university was established in 1983 as the only state university in the former British colony.

</doc>
